

===== FILE: AIS_175_Final_Draft_MARCH_2025.pdf =====


--- PAGE 1 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY STANDARD 
Test Method, Testing Equipment and 
Related Procedures for Type Approval,  
Conformity of Production (COP) and In Service 
Conformity(ISC) Testing for the Worldwide harmonized 
Light vehicle Test Procedure (WLTP) of M and N 
Category Vehicles having 
GVW not exceeding 3500 kg as per CMV Rules 115, 
116 and 126 
Page 1 of 762 



--- PAGE 2 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 2 of 762 
 
 
 
Clause 
No. 
Contents 
Page 
No. 
1 
Scope 
8 
2 
Abbreviations 
8 
3 
Definitions 
11 
4 
Application for approval 
25 
5 
Approval 
27 
6 
General requirements 
28 
7 
Modification and extension of the type approval 
47 
8 
Conformity of production (COP) 
49 
9 
In - Service Conformity(ISC) 
54 
10 
Production Definitively Discontinued 
55 
11 
Reserved 
55 
12 
Reserved 
55 
13 
Reserved 
55 
List of Appendix  
 
Appendix 1 
Type I test CoP verification for specific vehicle types 
56 
Appendix 2 
Verification of conformity of production for Type I test 
60 
Appendix 3 
Run-in test procedure to determine run-in factors 
65 
Appendix 4 
Conformity of production for Type IVtest 
68 
Appendix 5 
Reserved 
69 
Appendix 6 
Requirements for vehicles that use a reagent for the exhaust 
after-treatment system 
72 
Annexes Part A 
 
Annex A1 
Essential Characteristics Of The Vehicle And Engine And 
Information Concerning The Conduct Of Tests 
78 
Appendix to Annex A 
 
Appendix 1 
WLTP Test Report 
98 
Appendix 2 
WLTP Road Load Test Report 
122 
Appendix 3 
Auxillary Emission Strategy (AES) 
 
Appendix 3a 
Extended Documentation Package 
130 
Appendix 3b 
Methodology For The Assessment Of AES 
130 
Appendix 4 
Evaporative Emissions Test Report 
133 



--- PAGE 3 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 3 of 762 
 
 
Appendix 5 
Manufacturer's Certificate Of Compliance With The OBD In -
Use Performance Requirements 
133 
Annex A2 
Reserved  
136 
Annex A3 
Reserved  
152 
Annexes Part B 
 
Annex B1 
Worldwide light-duty test cycles (WLTC) 
155 
Annex B2 
Gear selection and shift point determination for vehicles 
equipped with manual transmissions 
214 
Annex B3 
Specifications of reference fuels 
229 
Annex B4 
Road load and dynamometer setting 
240 
Annex B5 
Test equipment and calibrations 
287 
Annex B6 
Type I test procedures and test conditions 
324 
Appendix to Annexure B 
 
Appendix 1 
Emissions test procedure for all vehicles equipped with 
periodically regenerating systems 
348 
Appendix 2 
Test procedure for rechargeable electric energy storage system 
monitoring 
353 
Appendix 3 
Calculation of gas energy ratio for gaseous fuels (LPG and 
NG/biomethane) 
358 
Annex B7 
Calculations  
365 
Annex B8 
Pure electric, hybrid electric and compressed hydrogen fuel cell 
hybrid vehicles 
394 
Appendix to Annexure B cont… 
 
Appendix 1 
REESS state of charge profile 
464 
Appendix 2 
REESS energy change-based correction procedure 
469 
Appendix 3 
Determination of REESS current and REESS voltage for 
NOVC-HEVs, OVC-HEVs, PEVs and NOVC-FCHVs 
478 
Appendix 4 
Preconditioning, soaking and REESS charging conditions of 
PEVs and OVC-HEVs 
 
480 
Appendix 5 
Utility factors (UF) for OVC-HEVs 
482 
Appendix 6 
Selection of driver-selectable modes 
483 
Appendix 7 
Fuel consumption measurement of compressed hydrogen fuel 
cell hybrid vehicles 
489 
Appendix 8 
Calculation of additional values required for checking the 
Conformity of Production of electric energy consumption of 
PEVs and OVC-HEVs 
492 



--- PAGE 4 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 4 of 762 
 
 
Annexes Part C 
 
Annex C1 
Type II test and free acceleration smoke test 
496 
Annex C2 
Type III test verifying emissions of crankcase gases 
496 
Annex C3 
Type IV test - Determination of evaporative emissions from 
vehicles fuelled with petrol 
497 
Annex C4 
Type V test – Durability 
522 
Appendix to Annex C 
 
Appendix 1 
Standard Bench Cycle (SBC) 
525 
Appendix 2 
Standard Diesel Bench Cycle (SDBC) 
526 
Appendix 3a 
Standard Road Cycle (SRC) 
527 
Appendix 3b 
The Kilometre Accumulation Cycles   
527 
Appendix 4 
Special requirements for Hybrid Vehicles 
530 
Annex C5 
On-Board Diagnostics (OBD) for motor vehicles 
531 
Appendix 1 
Functional aspects of On-Board Diagnostic (OBD) systems 
539 
Annex C6 
Verifying Real Driving Emissions (RDE) 
531 
Appendix  
539 
Appendix 1 
Test Procedure For Vehicle Emissions Testing With A Portable 
Emissions Measurement System (PEMS) 
539 
Appendix 2 
Specifications And Calibration Of Pems Components And 
Signals 
539 
Appendix 3 
Validation Of Pems And Non-Traceable Exhaust Mass Flow 
Rate 
539 
Appendix 4 
Determination of instantaneous emissions 
623 
Appendix 5 
Assessment Of Overall Trip Validity Using The Moving 
Averaging Window 
631 
 
Method  
 
Appendix 6 
Reserved  
539 
Appendix 7 
Selection Of Vehicles For PEMS Testing At Initial Type 
Approval    
539 
Appendix 7A 
Assessment of Excess or Absence of Trip Dynamics 
643 
Appendix 7B 
Procedure to Determine the Cumulative Positive Elevation Gain 
of a RDE Trip 
648 
Appendix 8 
Data Exchange And Reporting Requirements 
539 
Appendix 9 
Manufacturer's Decleration Of Compliance 
539 
Appendix 10 
Calculation Of The Final Rde Emissions Results 
539 



--- PAGE 5 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 5 of 762 
 
 
Annex C7 
In-service conformity check (ISC) 
531 
Appendix  
 
Appendix 1 
Criteria For Vehicle Selection And Failed Vehicles Decision 
539 
Appendix 2 
Rules For Performing Type 4 Tests During In-Service   
Conformity 
539 
Appendix 3 
Detailed ISC Report 
539 
Appendix 4 
Format Of ISC Report By The Test Agency 
539 
Appendix 5 
In-Use Performance Ratio Monitoring (IUPRM) 
539 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 6 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 6 of 762 
 
 
Introduction 
The intention of this Regulation is to establish uniform provisions concerning the approval 
of motor vehicles with regard to the emissions of the Vehicles of Category M and N having 
GVW not exceeding 3,500 kg, based on the new World harmonized Light vehicle Test 
Procedure (WLTP) included in UN GTR No. 15 Amendment 6 and the updated 
Evaporative Emissions test procedure (Type IV test) which has been developed in UN 
GTR No. 19 amendment 3.  
Europe has already adopted the GTR 15 WLTP test procedure and GTR 15 has already 
been transposed to a new UN regulation R154 under 1958 agreement.  The GTR15 WLTP 
Type I test replaced Type I test in UN Regulation No. 83 and UN Regulation No. 101, 
whilst the updated Evaporative Emissions test procedure (Type IV test) replaced the Type-
IV Evaporative Emissions test procedure in UN Regulation No 83. In addition, GTR15 
includes an update to the Type V test for verifying the durability of pollution control 
devices and updated On-Board Diagnostic (OBD) requirements. These updates are in 
order to reflect the changes from the previous New European Driving Cycle (NEDC) based 
Type I test to the new WLTP Type I test.  
The development of the WLTP was carried out under a program launched by the World 
Forum for the Harmonization of Vehicle Regulations (WP.29) of the United Nations 
Economic Commission for Europe (UN ECE) through the working party on pollution and 
energy (GRPE) under the 1998 Agreement. The aim of this project was to develop, a 
World-wide harmonised Light duty driving Test Procedure (WLTP) by 2014. A roadmap 
for the development of a UN Global Technical Regulation (UN GTR) was first presented 
in August 2009. 
The main motivation for WTLP, was to have a Globally Harmonized Test Procedure for 
Evaluating Emissions of Light Duty Vehicles. The primary goals were to have: 
• Globally harmonised/ standardised test procedure, thereby reducing development 
efforts 
• Reduce variation between lab and road esp. considering CO2 Emissions by having a 
more realistic test cycle closely representing actual driving conditions. 
It was decided in the 63rd Automotive Industry Standard (AIS) Committee meeting to 
adopt GTR 15 amendment 6 for India and formulate a new Automotive Industry Standard 
(AIS). Various focus Groups were formulated for development of WLTP regulation for 
India (AIS 175). The various sub-groups were Type-1 group (Chair –SIAM), Type-4 
group (Chair-ARAI), Coast Down group (Chair-ARAI) and IRDE (in continuation with 
the existing IRDE Committee Chaired by ICAT). 
 
Type-1 Group was entrusted with the key responsibility of formulating the Type-1 Test 
Procedure. However, later, other key topics which are closely related to Type-1 Test, such 
as OBD, Type5 Durability, COP etc. were also included. 
 
India being a signatory to UN 1998 Agreement and key contributor in GTR 15 formulation, 
Type 1 Group referred GTR 15 Amendment 6 as the base document while preparing this
standard.  
 
However, considerable assistance was taken from UN Regulation 154 revision 1, 2 and 3 
which are the outcome of transposition of GTR15 into UNR.   
 



--- PAGE 7 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 7 of 762 
 
 
In addition, other requirements like In-Service Conformity (ISC), Real Driving Emissions 
(RDE) test, Type-II/Free Acceleration Smoke (FAS) and Type-III tests, AES/BES 
requirements are included in this standard-AIS175. Type-II/FAS and Type-III are based 
on AIS 137 part 3(amendment 1,2,3,4). RDE test procedure is based on India RDE 
committee (IRDE) recommendations for WLTP RDE procedure which is based on draft 
UN GTR on global RDE procedure. ISC requirements are based on COMMISSION 
REGULATION (EU) 2017/1151 of June 1, 2017 as amended by (EU) 2017/1154, (EU) 
2017/1347 and (EU) 2018/1832. AES/BES requirements are based on AIS-137/Part 3 
Amendment (1,2,3,4) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 8 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 8 of 762 
 
 
1.0 
SCOPE  
 
 
This Regulation applies to the type approval of vehicles of categories M2 and 
N1 with a technical permissible maximum laden mass not exceeding 3 500kg 
and to all vehicles of category M1 with regard to the WLTP Type 1 test for 
emissions of gaseous compounds, particulate matter and to emissions of carbon 
dioxide and fuel efficiency and/or the measurement of electric energy 
consumption and electric range and to the Type 4 test on evaporative emissions. 
 
 
In addition, this Regulation lays down rules for verifying Type II Test (  idle and 
high idle emissions), Free acceleration smoke test (FAS), Type III Test 
(crankcase emissions) , Type IV test (evaporative emissions) , Type V Test 
(durability of pollution control devices), On-Board Diagnostic (OBD) systems, 
real driving emission (RDE) Test, Conformity of production(COP) and In 
Service Conformity (ISC) Test.  
 
 
2.0 
ABBREVIATIONS  
2.1 
General abbreviations 
 
AC 
Alternating current 
APF 
Assigned permeability factor 
BWC 
Butane working capacity 
CAL ID 
Software calibration Identification 
CFD 
Computational fluid dynamics 
CFV 
Critical flow venturi 
CFO 
Critical flow orifice 
CLA 
Chemiluminescent analyser 
COP 
Conformity of production 
CVS 
Constant volume sampler 
DC 
Direct current 
EAF 
Sum of ethanol, acetaldehyde and formaldehyde 
ECD 
Electron capture detector 
ET 
Evaporation tube 



--- PAGE 9 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 9 of 762 
 
 
FCHV 
Fuel cell hybrid vehicle 
FID 
Flame ionization detector 
FSD 
Full scale deflection 
FTIR 
Fourier transform infrared analyser 
GC 
Gas chromatograph 
GFV 
Gas Fuelled Vehicle 
HEPA 
High efficiency particulate air (filter) 
HFID 
Heated flame ionization detector 
High2 
Class 2 WLTC high speed phase 
High3a 
Class 3a WLTC high speed phase 
High3b 
Class 3b WLTC high speed phase 
ICE 
Internal combustion engine 
ISC 
In-service Conformity 
LoD 
Limit of detection 
LoQ 
Limit of quantification 
Low1 
Class 1 WLTC low speed phase 
Low2 
Class 2 WLTC low speed phase 
Low3 
Class 3 WLTC low speed phase 
Medium1 
Class 1 WLTC medium speed phase 
Medium2 
Class 2 WLTC medium speed phase 
Medium3a 
Class 3a WLTC medium speed phase 
Medium3b 
Class 3b WLTC medium speed phase 
LC 
Liquid chromatography 
LDS 
Laser diode spectrometer 
LPG 
Liquefied petroleum gas 
NDIR 
Non-dispersive infrared (analyser) 



--- PAGE 10 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 10 of 762 
 
 
NDUV 
Non-dispersive ultraviolet 
NG/biomethane 
Natural gas/biomethane 
NMC 
Non-methane cutter 
NOVC-FCHV 
Not off-vehicle charging fuel cell hybrid vehicle 
NOVC 
Not-off-vehicle charging  
NOVC-HEV 
Not off-vehicle charging hybrid electric vehicle 
OBD 
On-board Diagnostics 
OBFCM 
On-board 
fuel 
and/or 
energy 
consumption 
monitoring 
OVC-FCHV 
Off-vehicle charging fuel cell hybrid vehicle 
OVC-HEV 
Off-vehicle charging hybrid electric vehicle 
Pa 
Particulate mass collected on the background filter 
Pe 
Particulate mass collected on the sample filter 
PAO 
Poly-alpha-olefin 
PCF 
Particle pre-classifier 
PCRF 
Particle concentration reduction factor 
PDP 
Positive displacement pump 
PER 
Pure electric range 
Per cent FS 
Per cent of full scale 
PEMS 
Portable Emissions Measurement System 
PF 
Permeability factor 
PM 
Particulate matter emissions 
PN 
Particle number emissions 
PNC 
Particle number counter 
PND1 
First particle number dilution device 
PND2 
Second particle number dilution device 



--- PAGE 11 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 11 of 762 
 
 
PTS 
Particle transfer system 
PTT 
Particle transfer tube 
QCL-IR 
Infrared quantum cascade laser 
RCDA 
Charge-depleting actual range 
RCB 
REESS charge balance 
RDE 
Real Driving Emission 
REESS 
Rechargeable electric energy storage system 
RRC 
Rolling resistance coefficient 
SHED 
Sealed housing evaporative determination 
SSV 
Subsonic venturi 
 
USFM 
Ultrasonic flow meter 
VPR 
Volatile particle remover 
WLTC 
Worldwide light-duty test cycle 
2.2 
Chemical symbols and abbreviations 
 
C1 
Carbon 1 equivalent hydrocarbon 
CH4 
Methane 
C2H6 
Ethane 
C2H5OH 
Ethanol 
C3H8 
Propane 
CH3CHO 
Acetaldehyde 
CO 
Carbon monoxide 
CO2 
Carbon dioxide 
DOP 
Di-octylphthalate 
H2O 
Water 
HCHO 
Formaldehyde 
NH3 
Ammonia 



--- PAGE 12 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 12 of 762 
 
 
NMHC 
Non-methane hydrocarbons 
NOx 
Oxides of nitrogen 
NO 
Nitric oxide 
NO2 
Nitrogen dioxide 
N2O 
Nitrous oxide 
THC 
Total hydrocarbons 
3.0 
DEFINITIONS  
 
For the purposes of this Regulation the following definitions shall apply: 
3.0.1 
"Vehicle type with regard to emissions" means a group of vehicles which: 
 
(a) 
 
Do not differ with respect to the criteria constituting an 
"interpolation family" as defined in paragraph 6.3.2.; 
(b) 
 
Fall in a single "CO2 interpolation range" within the meaning of 
paragraph 2.3.2. of Annex B6; 
(c) 
 
Do not differ with respect to any characteristics that have a non-
negligible influence on tailpipe emissions, such as, but not limited 
to, the following: 
(i) Types and sequence of pollution control devices (e.g. three-way 
catalyst, oxidation catalyst, lean NOx trap, SCR, lean NOx 
catalyst, particulate trap or combinations thereof in a single 
unit); 
(ii) Exhaust gas recirculation (with or without, internal/external, 
cooled/non-cooled, low/high/combined pressure). 
3.0.2 
"Engine capacity" means: 
 
For reciprocating piston engines, the nominal engine swept volume. 
For rotary piston engines (Wankel), twice the nominal swept volume of a 
combustion chamber per piston. 
3.0.3 
"Engine displacement" means: 
 
For reciprocating piston engines, the nominal engine swept volume 
 
 
For rotary piston engines (Wankel), the nominal swept volume of a combustion 
chamber per piston 



--- PAGE 13 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 13 of 762 
 
 
3.0.4 
"Approval of a vehicle" means the approval of a vehicle type with regard to the 
scope of this Regulation. 
3.1 
Test equipment 
3.1.1 
"Accuracy" means the difference between a measured value and a reference 
value, traceable to a national standard and describes the correctness of a result. 
See Figure 1. 
3.1.2 
"Calibration" means the process of setting a measurement system's response so 
that its output agrees with a range of reference signals. 
3.1.3 
"Calibration gas" means a gas mixture used to calibrate gas analysers. 
3.1.4 
"Double dilution method" means the process of separating a part of the diluted 
exhaust flow and mixing it with an appropriate amount of dilution air prior to the 
particulate sampling filter. 
3.1.5 
"Full flow exhaust dilution system" means the continuous dilution of the total 
vehicle exhaust with ambient air in a controlled manner using a Constant Volume 
Sampler (CVS). 
3.1.6 
"Linearization" means the application of a range of concentrations or materials 
to establish a mathematical relationship between concentration and system 
response. 
3.1.7 
"Major maintenance" means the adjustment, repair or replacement of a 
component or module that could affect the accuracy of a measurement. 
3.1.8 
"Non-Methane Hydrocarbons" (NMHC) are the Total Hydrocarbons (THC) 
minus the methane (CH4) contribution. 
3.1.9 
"Precision" means the degree to which repeated measurements under unchanged 
conditions show the same results (Figure 1) and, in this Regulation, always refers 
to one standard deviation. 
3.1.10 
"Reference value" means a value traceable to a national standard. See Figure 1. 
3.1.11 
"Set point" means the target value a control system aims to reach. 
3.1.12 
"Span" means to adjust an instrument so that it gives a proper response to a 
calibration standard that represents between 75 per cent and 100 per cent of the 
maximum value in the instrument range or expected range of use. 
3.1.13 
"Total hydrocarbons" (THC) means all volatile compounds measurable by a 
flame ionization detector (FID). 
3.1.14 
"Verification" means to evaluate whether or not a measurement system's outputs 
agrees with applied reference signals within one or more predetermined 
thresholds for acceptance. 



--- PAGE 14 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 14 of 762 
 
 
3.1.15 
"Zero gas" means a gas containing no analyte which is used to set a zero response 
on an analyser. 
3.1.16 
"Response time" means the difference in time between the change of the 
component to be measured at the reference point and a system response of 
90 per cent of the final reading (t90) with the sampling probe being defined as the 
reference point, whereby the change of the measured component is at least 
60 per cent full scale (FS) and takes place in less than 0.1 second. The system 
response time consists of the delay time to the system and of the rise time of the 
system. 
3.1.17 
"Delay time" means the difference in time between the change of the component 
to be measured at the reference point and a system response of 10 per cent of the 
final reading (t10) with the sampling probe being defined as the reference point. 
For gaseous components, this is the transport time of the measured component 
from the sampling probe to the detector. 
3.1.18 
"Rise time" means the difference in time between the 10 per cent and 90 per cent 
response of the final reading (t90 – t10). 
 
Figure 1 
Definition of accuracy, precision and reference value 
 
 
 
3.2 
Road load and dynamometer setting 
3.2.1 
"Aerodynamic drag" means the force opposing a vehicle’s forward motion 
through air. 
3.2.2 
"Aerodynamic stagnation point" means the point on the surface of a vehicle 
where wind velocity is equal to zero. 



--- PAGE 15 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 15 of 762 
 
 
3.2.3 
"Anemometer blockage" means the effect on the anemometer measurement due 
to the presence of the vehicle where the apparent air speed is different than the 
vehicle speed combined with wind speed relative to the ground. 
3.2.4 
"Constrained analysis" means the vehicle’s frontal area and aerodynamic drag 
coefficient have been independently determined and those values shall be used 
in the equation of motion. 
3.2.5 
"Mass in running order" means the mass of the vehicle, with its fuel tank(s) filled 
to at least 90 per cent of its or their capacity/capacities, including the mass of the 
driver, fuel and liquids, fitted with the standard equipment in accordance with 
the manufacturer’s specifications and, when they are fitted, the mass of the 
bodywork, the cabin, the coupling and the spare wheel(s) as well as the tools. 
3.2.6 
"Mass of the driver" means a mass rated at 75 kg located at the driver’s seating 
reference point. 
3.2.7 
"Maximum vehicle load" means the technically permissible maximum laden 
mass minus the mass in running order, 25 kg and the mass of the optional 
equipment as defined in paragraph 3.2.8.. 
3.2.8 
"Mass of the optional equipment" means maximum mass of the combinations of 
optional equipment which may be fitted to the vehicle in addition to the standard 
equipment in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications. 
3.2.9 
"Optional equipment" means all the features not included in the standard 
equipment which are fitted to a vehicle under the responsibility of the 
manufacturer, and that can be ordered by the customer. 
3.2.10 
"Reference atmospheric conditions (regarding road load measurements)" means 
the atmospheric conditions to which these measurement results are corrected: 
 
(a) 
 
Atmospheric pressure: p0 = 100 kPa; 
 
(b) 
 
Atmospheric temperature: T0 = 20 °C; 
 
(c) 
 
Dry air density: ρ0 = 1.189 kg/m3; 
 
(d) 
 
Wind speed: 0 m/s. 
3.2.11 
"Reference speed" means the vehicle speed at which road load is determined or 
chassis dynamometer load is verified. 
3.2.12 
"Road load" means the force resisting the forward motion of a vehicle as 
measured with the coastdown method or methods that are equivalent regarding 
the inclusion of frictional losses of the drivetrain. 
3.2.13 
"Rolling resistance" means the forces of the tyres opposing the motion of a 
vehicle. 



--- PAGE 16 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 16 of 762 
 
 
3.2.14 
"Running resistance" means the torque resisting the forward motion of a vehicle 
measured by torque meters installed at the driven wheels of a vehicle. 
3.2.15 
"Simulated road load" means the road load experienced by the vehicle on the 
chassis dynamometer which is intended to reproduce the road load measured on 
the road, and consists of the force applied by the chassis dynamometer and the 
forces resisting the vehicle while driving on the chassis dynamometer and is 
approximated by the three coefficients of a second order polynomial. 
3.2.16 
"Simulated running resistance" means the running resistance experienced by the 
vehicle on the chassis dynamometer which is intended to reproduce the running 
resistance measured on the road, and consists of the torque applied by the chassis 
dynamometer and the torque resisting the vehicle while driving on the chassis 
dynamometer and is approximated by the three coefficients of a second order 
polynomial. 
3.2.17 
"Stationary anemometry" means measurement of wind speed and direction with 
an anemometer at a location and height above road level alongside the test road 
where the most representative wind conditions will be experienced. 
3.2.18 
"Standard equipment" means the basic configuration of a vehicle which is 
equipped with all the features that are required under the regulatory acts of the 
Contracting Party including all features that are fitted without giving rise to any 
further specifications on configuration or equipment level. 
3.2.19 
"Target road load" means the road load to be reproduced on the chassis 
dynamometer. 
3.2.20 
"Target running resistance" means the running resistance to be reproduced. 
3.2.21 
"Vehicle coastdown mode" means a system of operation enabling an accurate 
and repeatable determination of road load and an accurate dynamometer setting. 
3.2.22 
"Wind correction" means correction of the effect of wind on road load based on 
input of the stationary or on-board anemometry. 
3.2.23 
"Technically permissible maximum laden mass" means the maximum mass 
allocated to a vehicle on the basis of its construction features and its design 
performances. 
3.2.24 
"Actual mass of the vehicle" means the mass in running order plus the mass of 
the fitted optional equipment to an individual vehicle. 
3.2.25 
"Test mass of the vehicle" means the sum of the actual mass of the vehicle, 25 kg 
and the mass representative of the vehicle load. 
3.2.26 
"Mass representative of the vehicle load" means x per cent of the maximum 
vehicle load where x is 15 per cent for category M vehicles and 28 per cent for 
category N vehicles. 



--- PAGE 17 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 17 of 762 
 
 
3.2.27 
"Technically permissible maximum laden mass of the combination" (MC) means 
the maximum mass allocated to the combination of a motor vehicle and one or 
more trailers on the basis of its construction features and its design performances 
or the maximum mass allocated to the combination of a tractor unit and a semi-
trailer. 
3.2.28 
"n/v ratio" means the engine rotational speed divided by vehicle speed. 
3.2.29 
"Single roller dynamometer" means a dynamometer where each wheel on a 
vehicle's axle is in contact with one roller. 
3.2.30 
"Twin-roller dynamometer" means a dynamometer where each wheel on a 
vehicle's axle is in contact with two rollers. 
3.2.31 
"Powered axle" means an axle of a vehicle which is able to deliver propulsion 
energy and/or recuperate energy, independent of whether that is only temporarily 
or permanently possible and/or selectable by the driver. 
3.2.32 
"2WD dynamometer" means a dynamometer where only the wheels on one 
vehicle axle are in contact with the roller(s). 
3.2.33 
"4WD dynamometer" means a dynamometer where all wheels on both vehicle 
axles are in contact with the rollers. 
3.2.34 
"Dynamometer in 2WD operation" means a 2WD dynamometer, or a 4WD 
dynamometer which only simulates inertia and road load on the powered axle of 
the test vehicle and where the rotating wheels on the non-powered axle shall have 
no influence on the measurement results compared to a situation where the 
wheels on the non-powered axle are not rotating. 
3.2.35 
"Dynamometer in 4WD operation" means a 4WD dynamometer which simulates 
inertia and road load on both axles of the test vehicle. 
3.2.36 
"Coasting" means a functionality of either an automatic transmission or a clutch 
which decouples the engine from the drivetrain automatically when no 
propulsion or a slow reduction of speed is needed and during which the engine 
may be idling or switched off. 
3.3 
Pure electric, pure ICE, hybrid electric, fuel cell and alternatively-fuelled 
vehicles 
3.3.1 
"All-Electric Range" (AER) means the total distance travelled by an OVC-HEV 
from the beginning of the charge-depleting test to the point in time during the 
test when the combustion engine starts to consume fuel. 
3.3.2 
"Pure Electric Range" (PER) means the total distance travelled by a PEV from 
the beginning of the charge-depleting test until the break-off criterion is reached. 



--- PAGE 18 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 18 of 762 
 
 
3.3.3 
"Charge-Depleting Actual Range" (RCDA) means the distance travelled in a series 
of WLTCs in charge-depleting operating condition until the Rechargeable 
Electric Energy Storage System (REESS) is depleted. 
3.3.4 
"Charge-Depleting Cycle Range" (RCDC) means the distance from the beginning 
of the charge-depleting test to the end of the last cycle prior to the cycle or cycles 
satisfying the break-off criterion, including the transition cycle where the vehicle 
may have operated in both depleting and sustaining conditions. 
3.3.5 
"Charge-depleting operating condition" means an operating condition in which 
the energy stored in the Rechargeable Electric Energy Storage System (REESS) 
may fluctuate but decreases on average while the vehicle is driven until transition 
to charge-sustaining operation. 
3.3.6 
"Charge-sustaining operating condition" means an operating condition in which 
the energy stored in the REESS may fluctuate but, on average, is maintained at a 
neutral charging balance level while the vehicle is driven. 
3.3.7 
"Utility Factors" are ratios based on driving statistics depending on the range 
achieved in charge-depleting condition and are used to weigh the charge-
depleting and charge-sustaining exhaust emission compounds, CO2 emissions 
and fuel consumption for OVC-HEVs. 
3.3.8 
"Electric machine" (EM) means an energy converter transforming between 
electrical and mechanical energy 
3.3.9 
"Energy converter" means a system where the form of energy output is different 
from the form of energy input. 
3.3.9.1 
"Propulsion energy converter" means an energy converter of the powertrain 
which is not a peripheral device whose output energy is used directly or indirectly 
for the purpose of vehicle propulsion 
3.3.9.2 
"Category of propulsion energy converter" means (i) an internal combustion 
engine, or (ii) an electric machine, or (iii) a fuel cell. 
3.3.10 
"Energy storage system" means a system which stores energy and releases it in 
the same form as was input. 
3.3.10.1 
"Propulsion energy storage system" means an energy storage system of the 
powertrain which is not a peripheral device and whose output energy is used 
directly or indirectly for the purpose of vehicle propulsion. 
3.3.10.2 
"Category of propulsion energy storage system" means (i) a fuel storage system, 
or (ii) a rechargeable electric energy storage system, or (iii) a rechargeable 
mechanical energy storage system. 
3.3.10.3 
"Form of energy" means (i) electrical energy, or (ii) mechanical energy, or (iii) 
chemical energy (including fuels). 



--- PAGE 19 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 19 of 762 
 
 
3.3.10.4 
"Fuel storage system" means a propulsion energy storage system that stores 
chemical energy as liquid or gaseous fuel. 
3.3.11 
"Equivalent all-electric range" (EAER) means that portion of the total charge-
depleting actual range (RCDA) attributable to the use of electricity from the 
REESS over the charge-depleting range test. 
3.3.12 
"Hybrid electric vehicle" (HEV) means a hybrid vehicle where one of the 
propulsion energy converters is an electric machine 
3.3.13 
"Hybrid vehicle" (HV) means a vehicle equipped with a powertrain containing 
at least two different categories of propulsion energy converters and at least two 
different categories of propulsion energy storage systems 
3.3.14 
"Net energy change" means the ratio of the REESS energy change divided by the 
cycle energy demand of the test vehicle. 
3.3.15 
"Not off-vehicle charging hybrid electric vehicle" (NOVC-HEV) means a hybrid 
electric vehicle that cannot be charged from an external source. 
3.3.16 
"Off-vehicle charging hybrid electric vehicle" (OVC-HEV) means a hybrid 
electric vehicle that can be charged from an external source. 
3.3.17 
"Pure electric vehicle" (PEV) means a vehicle equipped with a powertrain 
containing exclusively electric machines as propulsion energy converters and 
exclusively rechargeable electric energy storage systems as propulsion energy 
storage systems. 
3.3.18 
"Fuel cell" means an energy converter transforming chemical energy (input) into 
electrical energy (output) or vice versa. 
3.3.19 
"Fuel cell vehicle" (FCV) means a vehicle equipped with a powertrain containing 
exclusively fuel cell(s) and electric machine(s) as propulsion energy 
converter(s). 
3.3.20 
"Fuel cell hybrid vehicle" (FCHV) means a fuel cell vehicle equipped with a 
powertrain containing at least one fuel storage system and at least one 
rechargeable electric energy storage system as propulsion energy storage 
systems. 
3.3.20.1 
"Not off-vehicle charging fuel cell hybrid electric vehicle" (NOVC-FCHV) 
means a fuel cell hybrid electric vehicle that cannot be charged from an external 
source. 
3.3.20.2 
"Off-vehicle charging fuel cell hybrid electric vehicle" (OVC-FCHV) means a 
fuel cell hybrid electric vehicle that can be charged from an external source. 
3.3.21 
"Bi-fuel vehicle" means a vehicle with two separate fuel storage systems that is 
designed to run primarily on only one fuel at a time; however, the simultaneous 
use of both fuels is permitted in limited amount and duration. 



--- PAGE 20 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 20 of 762 
 
 
3.3.22 
"Bi-fuel gas vehicle" means a bi-fuel vehicle where the two fuels are petrol 
(petrol mode) and either LPG, NG/biomethane, or hydrogen. 
3.3.23 
"Pure ICE vehicle" means a vehicle where all of the propulsion energy converters 
are internal combustion engines. 
3.3.24 
"On-board charger" means the electric power converter between the traction 
REESS and the vehicle's recharging socket. 
3.3.25 
"Flex fuel vehicle" means a vehicle with one fuel storage system that can run on 
different mixtures of two or more fuels. 
3.3.26 
"Flex fuel ethanol vehicle" means a flex fuel vehicle that can run on petrol or a 
mixture of petrol and ethanol up to an 85 per cent ethanol blend (E85). 
3.3.27 
"Mono-fuel vehicle" means a vehicle that is designed to run primarily on one 
type of fuel. 
3.3.28 
"Mono-fuel gas vehicle" means a mono-fuel vehicle that is designed primarily 
for permanent running on LPG or NG/biomethane or hydrogen, but may also 
have a petrol system for emergency purposes or starting only, where the nominal 
capacity of the petrol tank does not exceed 15 litres. 
3.4 
Powertrain 
3.4.1 
"Powertrain" means the total combination in a vehicle of propulsion energy 
storage system(s), propulsion energy converter(s) and the drivetrain(s) providing 
the mechanical energy at the wheels for the purpose of vehicle propulsion, plus 
peripheral devices. 
3.4.2 
"Auxiliary devices" means energy consuming, converting, storing or supplying 
non-peripheral devices or systems which are installed in the vehicle for purposes 
other than the propulsion of the vehicle and are therefore not considered to be 
part of the powertrain. 
3.4.3 
"Peripheral devices" means any energy consuming, converting, storing or 
supplying devices, where the energy is not directly or indirectly used for the 
purpose of vehicle propulsion but which are essential to the operation of the 
powertrain and are therefore considered to be part of the powertrain. 
3.4.4 
"Drivetrain" means the connected elements of the powertrain for transmission of 
the mechanical energy between the propulsion energy converter(s) and the 
wheels. 
3.4.5 
"Manual transmission" means a transmission where gears can only be shifted by 
action of the driver. 
3.5 
General 



--- PAGE 21 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 21 of 762 
 
 
3.5.1 
"Criteria emissions" means those emission compounds for which limits are set 
in this Regulation. 
3.5.2 
“In-service test” means the test and evaluation of conformity conducted in 
accordance with Annex C7 of this regulation 
3.5.3 
"Properly maintained and used" means, for the purpose of a test vehicle, that such 
a vehicle satisfies the criteria for acceptance of a selected vehicle laid down in 
Annex C7 of this regulation. 
3.5.4 
Reserved 
3.5.5 
Reserved 
3.5.6 
"Cycle energy demand" means the calculated positive energy required by the 
vehicle to drive the prescribed cycle. 
3.5.7 
"Defeat device" means any element of design which senses temperature, vehicle 
speed, engine speed (RPM), transmission gear, manifold vacuum or any other 
parameter for the purpose of activating, modulating, delaying or deactivating the 
operation of any part of the emission control system, that reduces the 
effectiveness of the emission control system under conditions which may 
reasonably be expected to be encountered in normal vehicle operation and use. 
3.5.8 
"Driver-selectable mode" means a distinct driver-selectable condition which 
could affect emissions, or fuel and/or energy consumption. 
3.5.9 
"Predominant mode" for the purpose of this Regulation means a single driver-
selectable mode that is always selected when the vehicle is switched on, 
regardless of the driver-selectable mode in operation when the vehicle was 
previously shut down, and which cannot be redefined to another mode. After the 
vehicle is switched on, the predominant mode can only be switched to another 
driver-selectable mode by an intentional action of the driver. 
3.5.10 
"Reference conditions (with regards to calculating mass emissions)" means the 
conditions upon which gas densities are based, namely 101.325 kPa and 
273.15 K (0 °C). 
3.5.11 
"Exhaust emissions" means the emission of gaseous, solid and liquid compounds 
from the tailpipe. 
3.5.12 
'Configurable start mode' for the purpose of this Regulation means a driver-
selectable mode that can be set by the driver as a mode which is automatically 
selected when the vehicle is switched on. After the vehicle is switched on, the 
configurable start mode can only be switched to another mode by an intentional 
action of the driver. 
3.6 
PM/PN 



--- PAGE 22 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 22 of 762 
 
 
 
The term "particle" is conventionally used for the matter being characterised 
(measured) in the airborne phase (suspended matter), and the term "particulate" 
for the deposited matter. 
3.6.1 
"Particle number emissions" (PN) means the total number of solid particles 
emitted from the vehicle exhaust quantified according to the dilution, sampling 
and measurement methods as specified in this Regulation. 
3.6.2 
"Particulate matter emissions" (PM) means the mass of any particulate material 
from the vehicle exhaust quantified according to the dilution, sampling and 
measurement methods as specified in this Regulation. 
3.7 
WLTC 
3.7.1 
"Rated engine power" (Prated) means maximum net power of the engine or motor 
in kW declared by the manufacturer according to CMVR 
3.7.2 
"Maximum speed" (vmax) means the maximum speed of a vehicle declared by 
manufacturer based on design calculation 
3.8 
Procedure 
3.8.1 
"Periodically regenerating system" means an exhaust emissions control device 
(e.g. catalytic converter, particulate trap) that requires a periodical regeneration. 
3.9 
Evaporative emissions 
3.9.1 
"Fuel tank system" means the devices which allow storing the fuel, comprising 
the fuel tank, the fuel filler, the filler cap and the fuel pump when it is fitted in or 
on the fuel tank. 
3.9.2 
"Fuel system" means the components which store or transport fuel on board the 
vehicle and comprise the fuel tank system, all fuel and vapour lines, any non-
tank mounted fuel pumps and the activated carbon canister. 
3.9.3 
"Butane working capacity" (BWC) means the mass of butane which a carbon 
canister can adsorb. 
3.9.4 
"BWC300" means the butane working capacity after 300 cycles of fuel ageing 
cycles experienced. 
3.9.5 
"Permeability Factor" (PF) means the factor determined from hydrocarbon losses 
over a period of time and used to determine the final evaporative emissions. 
3.9.6 
"Monolayer non-metal tank" means a fuel tank constructed with a single layer of 
non-metal material including fluorinated/sulfonated materials. 
3.9.7 
"Multilayer tank" means a fuel tank constructed with at least two different 
layered materials, one of which is a hydrocarbon barrier material. 



--- PAGE 23 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 23 of 762 
 
 
3.9.8 
"Sealed fuel tank system" means a fuel tank system where the fuel vapours do 
not vent during parking over the 24-hour diurnal cycle defined in paragraph 6.5.9 
of Annex C3 when performed with a reference fuel defined in  Annex B3. 
3.9.9 
"Evaporative emissions" means in the context of this regulation the hydrocarbon 
vapours lost from the fuel system of a motor vehicle during parking and 
immediately before refuelling of a sealed fuel tank. 
3.9.10 
"Depressurisation puff loss" means hydrocarbons venting from a sealed fuel tank 
system pressure relief exclusively through the carbon canister allowed by the 
system. 
3.9.11 
"Depressurisation puff loss overflow" are the depressurisation puff loss 
hydrocarbons that pass through the carbon canister during depressurisation. 
3.9.12 
"Fuel tank relief pressure" is the minimum pressure value at which the sealed 
fuel tank system starts venting in response only to pressure inside the tank. 
3.9.13 
"2 gram breakthrough" shall be considered accomplished when the cumulative 
quantity of hydrocarbons emitted from the activated carbon canister equals 2 
grams. 
3.10 
On-Board Diagnostics (OBD) 
3.10.1 
"On-Board Diagnostic (OBD) system" means in context of this Regulation, a 
system on-board the vehicle which has the capability of detecting malfunctions 
of the monitored emission control systems, identifying the likely area of a 
malfunction by means of fault codes stored in computer memory, and 
illumination of the Malfunction Indicator (MI) to notify the operator of the 
vehicle. 
3.10.2 
"OBD family" means a manufacturer's grouping of vehicles which, through their 
design, are expected to have similar exhaust emission and OBD system 
characteristics. Each vehicle of this family shall have complied with the 
requirements of this Regulation as defined in paragraph 6.8.1 of this regulation. 
3.10.3 
"Emission control system" means in the context of OBD the electronic engine 
management controller and any emission-related component in the exhaust or 
evaporative system which supplies an input to or receives an output from this 
controller. 
3.10.4 
"Malfunction indicator (MI)" means a visible or audible indicator that clearly 
informs the driver of the vehicle in the event of a malfunction of any emission-
related component connected to the OBD system, or the OBD system itself. 
3.10.5 
"Malfunction" means the failure of an emission-related component or system that 
would result in emissions exceeding the OBD thresholds as  per the Gazette 
Notification or if the OBD system is unable to fulfil the basic monitoring 
requirements of this annex. 



--- PAGE 24 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 24 of 762 
 
 
3.10.6 
"Secondary air" refers to air introduced into the exhaust system by means of a 
pump or aspirator valve or other means that is intended to aid in the oxidation of 
HC and CO contained in the exhaust gas stream. 
3.10.7 
"Engine misfire" means lack of combustion in the cylinder of a positive ignition 
engine due to absence of spark, poor fuel metering, poor compression or any 
other cause. In terms of OBD monitoring it is that percentage of misfires out of 
a total no of firing events ( as declared by the manufacturer) that would result in 
emissions exceeding the OBD thresholds given in Gazette Notofication or that 
percentage that could lead to an exhaust catalyst, or catalysts, overheating 
causing irreversible damage.  
3.10.8 
An "OBD driving cycle" consists of key-on, a driving mode where a malfunction 
would be detected if present, and key-off. 
3.10.9 
A "warm-up cycle" means sufficient vehicle operation such that the coolant 
temperature has risen by at least 22 K from engine starting and reaches a 
minimum temperature of 343 K (70 °C). 
3.10.10 
A "Fuel trim" refers to feedback adjustments to the base fuel schedule. Short-
term fuel trim refers to dynamic or instantaneous adjustments. Long-term fuel 
trim refers to much more gradual adjustments to the fuel calibration schedule 
than short-term trim adjustments. These long-term adjustments compensate for 
vehicle differences and gradual changes that occur over time. 
3.10.11 
A "Calculated load value" refers to an indication of the current airflow divided 
by peak airflow, where peak airflow is corrected for altitude, if available. This 
definition provides a dimensionless number that is not engine specific and 
provides the service technician with an indication of the proportion of engine 
capacity that is being used (with wide open throttle as 100 per cent); 
 
pressure
Barometric
)
level
sea
at
(
pressure
c
Atmospheri
)
level
sea
at
(
airflow
Peak
airflow
Current
CLV
•
=
 
3.10.12 
"Permanent emission default mode" refers to a case where the engine 
management controller permanently switches to a setting that does not require 
an input from a failed component or system where such a failed component or 
system would result in an increase in emissions from the vehicle to a level above 
the OBD thresholds as per Gazette Notification 
3.10.12.1  Permanent in this context means that the default mode is not recoverable, i.e. the 
diagnostic or control strategy that caused the emission default mode cannot run 
in the next driving cycle and cannot confirm that the conditions that caused the 
emission default mode is not present anymore. All other emission default modes 
are considered not to be permanent. 
3.10.13 
 "Power take-off unit" means an engine-driven output provision for the purposes 
of powering auxiliary, vehicle mounted, equipment. 
3.10.14 
 "Access" means the availability of all emission-related OBD data including all 
fault codes required for the inspection, diagnosis, servicing or repair of 



--- PAGE 25 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 25 of 762 
 
 
emissions-related parts of the vehicle, via the serial interface for the standard 
diagnostic connection (pursuant to paragraph 6.5.3.5. of Appendix 1 to 
Annex C5). 
3.10.15 
 "Unrestricted" means: 
3.10.15.1  Access not dependent on an access code obtainable only from the manufacturer, 
or a similar device; or 
3.10.15.2  Access allowing evaluation of the data produced without the need for any unique 
decoding information, unless that information itself is standardised. 
3.10.16 
 "Standardised" means that all data stream information, including all fault codes 
used, shall be produced only in accordance with industry standards which, by 
virtue of the fact that their format and their permitted options are clearly defined, 
provide for a maximum level of harmonisation in the motor vehicle industry, and 
whose use is expressly permitted in this Regulation. 
3.10.17 
(Reserved) 
3.10.18 
"Deficiency" means, in respect of vehicle OBD systems, that components or 
systems that are monitored contain temporary or permanent operating 
characteristics that impair the otherwise efficient OBD monitoring of those 
components or systems or do not meet all of the other detailed requirements for 
OBD. 
3.10.19 
"Limp-home routines" means any default mode other than emission default 
mode. 
3.10.20 
"Pending fault code" is a diagnostic trouble code stored upon the initial detection 
of a malfunction prior to illumination of the malfunction indicator. 
3.10.21 
"Readiness" means a status indicating whether a monitor or a group of monitors 
have run since the last erasing by an external request or command (for example 
through an OBD scan-tool). 
3.10.22 
"Diagnostic trouble code" or "fault code" is an alphanumeric identifier for a fault 
condition identified by the OBD System. 
3.10.23 
"Confirmed fault code" is a diagnostic trouble code stored when an OBD system 
has confirmed that a malfunction exists. 
3.10.24 
"Scan tool" means an external test equipment used for standardised off-board 
communication with the OBD system in accordance with the requirements of 
this regulation 
3.10.25 
"Software calibration identification" means a series of alphanumeric characters 
that identifies the emission-related calibration and/or software version. 



--- PAGE 26 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 26 of 762 
 
 
3.10.26 
"Circuit Continuity" means the integrity of an electric circuit, i.e. the absence of 
short to battery, short to ground, or open circuit faults. 
3.10.27 
“Calibration verification number" means the number that is calculated and 
reported by the engine system to validate the calibration / software integrity 
3.11 
"Base Emission Strategy" (hereinafter 'BES') means an emission strategy that is 
active throughout the speed and load operating range of the vehicle unless an 
auxiliary emission strategy is activated 
3.12 
"Auxiliary Emission Strategy" (hereinafter 'AES') means an emission strategy 
that becomes active and replaces or modifies a BES for a specific purpose and in 
response to a specific set of ambient or operating conditions and only remains 
operational as long as those conditions exist. 
4.0 
Application of Approval  
4.1 
The application for approval of a vehicle type with regard to the requirements of 
this Regulation shall be submitted by the vehicle manufacturer or by their 
authorized representative to the Test Agency. 
4.1.1 
The application referred to in paragraph 4.1. shall be drawn up in accordance 
with the model of the information document set out in Annex A1 to this 
Regulation. 
4.1.2 
In addition, the manufacturer shall submit the following information: 
 
(a) 
 In the case of vehicles equipped with positive ignition engines, a 
declaration by the manufacturer of the minimum percentage of misfires 
out of a total number of firing events that would either result in 
emissions exceeding the OBD threshold limits given in Gazette 
Notification, if that percentage of misfire had been present from the 
start of a Type I test as described in Annexes Part B to this Regulation, 
or that could lead to an exhaust catalyst, or catalysts, overheating prior 
to causing irreversible damage; 
 
(b) 
 Detailed written information fully describing the functional operation 
characteristics of the OBD system, including a listing of all relevant 
parts of the emission control system of the vehicle that are monitored 
by the OBD system; 
 
(c) 
 A description of the malfunction indicator used by the OBD system to 
signal the presence of a fault to a driver of the vehicle; 
 
(d) 
 A declaration by the manufacturer that the OBD system complies with 
the provisions of paragraph 7. of Appendix 1 to Annex C5 to this 
Regulation relating to in-use performance under all reasonably 
foreseeable driving conditions; 
 
(e) 
 A plan describing the detailed technical criteria and justification for 
incrementing the numerator and denominator of each monitor that shall 



--- PAGE 27 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 27 of 762 
 
 
fulfil the requirements of paragraphs 7.2. and 7.3. of Appendix 1 to 
Annex C5 to this Regulation, as well as for disabling numerators, 
denominators and the general denominator under the conditions 
outlined in paragraph 7.7. of Appendix 1 to Annex C5 to this 
Regulation; 
 
(f) 
 A description of the provisions taken to prevent tampering with and 
modification of the emission control computer; 
 
(g) 
 If applicable, the particulars of the OBD family as referred to in 
paragraph 6.8.1.; 
 
(h) 
 Where appropriate, copies of other type approvals with the relevant 
data to enable extension of approvals and establishment of deterioration 
factors. 
4.1.3 
For the tests described in paragraph 3. of Annex C5 to this Regulation, a vehicle 
representative of the vehicle type or vehicle family fitted with the OBD system 
to be approved shall be submitted to the Test Agency responsible for the type 
approval test. If the Test Agency determines that the submitted vehicle does not 
fully represent the OBD family described in paragraph 6.8.1., an alternative and, 
if necessary, an additional vehicle shall be submitted for test in accordance with 
paragraph 3. of Annex C5 to this Regulation 
4.2 
A model of the information document relating to exhaust emissions, evaporative 
emissions, durability, Real Driving Emission (RDE), measurement of fuel 
consumption, engine power and the On-Board Diagnostic (OBD) system is given 
in AIS-007, as amended from time to time. 
4.2.1 
Where appropriate, copies of other type approvals with the relevant data to 
enable extensions of approvals and establishment of deterioration factors shall 
be submitted. 
4.3 
For the tests specified in Table A in paragraph 6. a vehicle representative of the 
vehicle type to be approved shall be submitted to the Test Agency responsible 
for the approval tests. 
 
The application referred to in clause 4.1. of this Regulation shall be drawn up in 
accordance with the model of the information document set out as per AIS-007, 
as amended from time to time 
 
For the purposes of clause 4.1.2(d) of this regulation, the manufacturer shall use 
the model of a manufacturer's certificate of compliance with the OBD in-use 
performance requirements set out in Appendix 1 of Annex A1 of this regulation.. 
4.3.1 
For the purposes of paragraph 4.1.2.(e), the Test Agency that grants the approval 
shall make the information referred to in that point available to other Test Agency 
upon request. 
4.3.2 
For the purposes of subparagraphs 4.1.2. (d) and (e), Test Agency shall not 
approve a vehicle if the information submitted by the manufacturer is 



--- PAGE 28 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 28 of 762 
 
 
inappropriate for fulfilling the requirements of paragraph 7. of Appendix 1 to 
Annex C5 to this Regulation. Paragraphs 7.2., 7.3. and 7.7. of Appendix 1 to 
Annex C5 to this Regulation shall apply under all reasonably foreseeable driving 
conditions. For the assessment of the implementation of the requirements set out 
in the paragraphs 7.2. and 7.3. of Appendix 1 to Annex C5, the Test Agency shall 
take into account the state of technology. 
4.3.3 
For the purposes of paragraph 4.1.2. (f), the provisions taken to prevent 
tampering with and modification of the emission control computer shall include 
the facility for updating using a manufacturer-approved programme or 
calibration. 
4.3.4 
The application for type approval of flex-fuel, mono fuel, and bi-fuel vehicles 
shall comply with the additional requirements laid down in paragraphs 5.8. and 
5.9. 
4.3.5 
Changes to the make of a system, component or separate technical unit that occur 
after a type approval shall not automatically invalidate a type approval, unless its 
original characteristics or technical parameters are changed in such a way that 
the functionality of the engine or pollution control system is affected. 
4.4 
The manufacturer shall equip vehicles so that the components likely to affect 
emissions are designed, constructed and assembled so as to enable the vehicle, 
in normal use, to comply with this Part and its implementing measures 
5.0 
Approval 
5.1 
If the vehicle type submitted for approval meets all the relevant requirements of 
paragraph 6., approval of that vehicle type shall be granted. 
5.2 
Reserved 
5.3 
Reserved 
5.4 
Reserved 
5.5 
Reserved 
5.6 
Reserved 
5.7 
Reserved 
5.8 
Additional requirements for approval of flex fuel vehicles 
5.8.1 
For  the  type  approval  of  a  flex  fuel  ethanol  or  biodiesel  vehicle,  the  
vehicle manufacturer shall describe the capability of the vehicle to adapt to any 
mixture of gasoline and ethanol fuel (up to an 85% or 100 % ethanol blend) or 
diesel and biodiesel that may occur across the market. 
5.8.2 
For flex fuel vehicles, the transition from one reference fuel to another between 
the tests shall take place without manual adjustment of the engine settings. 



--- PAGE 29 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 29 of 762 
 
 
5.9 
Additional requirements for mono fuel gas vehicles, and bi-fuel gas vehicles. 
5.9.1 
For LPG or NG, the fuel to be used shall be specified in the information 
document set out in Annex A1 to this Regulation. 
5.10 
Requirements for approval regarding the OBD system 
5.10.1 
The manufacturer shall ensure that all vehicles are equipped with an OBD 
system. 
5.10.2 
The OBD system shall be designed, constructed and installed on a vehicle so as 
to enable it to identify types of deterioration or malfunction over the entire life 
of the vehicle. 
5.10.3 
The OBD system shall comply with the requirements of this Regulation during 
conditions of normal use. 
5.10.4 
When tested with a defective component in accordance with Appendix 1 to 
Annex C5 to this Regulation, the OBD system malfunction indicator shall be 
activated. The OBD system malfunction indicator may also activate during this 
test at levels of emissions below the OBD threshold limits specified in Gazette 
Notofication. 
5.10.5 
The manufacturer shall ensure that the OBD system complies with the 
requirements for in-use performance set out in paragraph 7. of Appendix 1 to 
Annex C5 to this Regulation under all reasonably foreseeable driving conditions. 
5.10.6 
In-use performance related data to be stored and reported by a vehicle's OBD 
system according to the provisions of paragraph 7.6. of Appendix 1 to Annex C5 
to this Regulation shall be made readily available by the manufacturer to national 
authorities and independent operators without any encryption. 
5.11 
Reserved 
6.0 
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS  
6.1 
General  
6.1.1 
The vehicle and its components liable to affect CO2 and fuel consumption or 
electric energy consumption and the emissions of gaseous compounds, including 
evaporative emissions, particulate matter, particle number (if PN measurement 
is required) shall be so designed, constructed and assembled as to enable the 
vehicle in normal use and under normal conditions of use such as humidity, rain, 
snow, heat, cold, sand, dirt, vibrations, wear, etc. to comply with the provisions 
of this Regulation during its useful life. 
This shall include the security of all hoses, joints and connections used within 
the emission control systems and the evaporative emission control systems 



--- PAGE 30 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 30 of 762 
 
 
For exhaust emissions, CO2 and fuel consumption or electric energy 
consumption these provisions are deemed to be met if the provisions of paragraph 
6.3. and paragraph 8.2. are complied with. 
For evaporative emissions, these conditions are deemed to be met if the 
provisions of paragraph 6.6. and paragraph 8.3. are complied with. 
6.1.2 
The test vehicle shall be representative in terms of its emissions-related 
components and functionality of the intended production series to be covered by 
the approval. The manufacturer and the Test Agency shall agree which vehicle 
test model is representative 
6.1.3 
With respect to evaporative emissions, for vehicles with a sealed fuel tank 
system, this shall also include having a system which, just before refuelling, 
releases the tank pressure exclusively through a carbon canister which has the 
sole function of storing fuel vapour. This ventilation route shall also be the only 
one used when the tank pressure exceeds its safe working pressure. 
6.1.4 
Vehicle testing condition 
6.1.4.1 
The types and amounts of lubricants and coolant for emissions testing shall be as 
specified for normal vehicle operation by the manufacturer 
6.1.4.2 
The type of fuel for emissions testing shall be as specified in Annex B3 to this 
Regulation. 
6.1.4.3 
All emissions controlling systems, including evaporative emissions controlling 
systems shall be in working order. The use of any defeat device is prohibited. 
6.1.4.4 
The engine shall be designed to avoid crankcase emissions. 
6.1.4.5 
The tyres used for emissions testing shall be as defined in paragraph 2.4.5. of 
Annex B6  to this Regulation. 
6.1.5 
Reserved 
6.1.6 
Provision shall be made to prevent excess evaporative emissions and fuel spillage 
caused by a missing fuel filler cap. This may be achieved by using one of the 
following: 
6.1.6.1 
An automatically opening and closing, non-removable fuel filler cap; 
6.1.6.2 
Design features which avoid excess evaporative emissions in the case of a 
missing fuel filler cap; or 
6.1.6.3 
Any other provision which has the same effect. Examples may include, but are 
not limited to, a tethered filler cap, a chained filler cap or one utilising the same 
locking key for the filler cap as for the vehicle's ignition. In this case, the key 
shall be removable from the filler cap only in the locked condition. 
6.1.7 
Provisions for electronic system security 



--- PAGE 31 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 31 of 762 
 
 
6.1.7.1 
Any vehicle with an emission control computer, including an evaporative 
emission control computer, including when integrated in an exhaust emissions 
control computer, shall include features to deter modification, except as 
authorised by the manufacturer. The manufacturer shall authorise modifications 
if those modifications are necessary for the diagnosis, servicing, inspection, 
retrofitting or repair of the vehicle. Any reprogrammable computer codes or 
operating parameters shall be resistant to tampering and afford a level of 
protection at least as good as the provisions in ISO 15031-7: 2013. Any 
removable calibration memory chips shall be potted, encased in a sealed 
container or protected by electronic algorithms and shall not be changeable 
without the use of specialized tools and procedures. 
6.1.7.1.1 Only features directly associated with emissions calibration or prevention of 
vehicle theft may be protected in accordance with paragraph 6.1.7.1. 
6.1.7.2 
Computer-coded engine operating parameters shall not be changeable without 
the use of specialized tools and procedures (e.g. soldered or potted computer 
components or sealed (or soldered) enclosures). 
6.1.7.3 
Manufacturers may seek approval from the Test Agency for an exemption to one 
of these requirements for those vehicles that are unlikely to require protection. 
The criteria that the Test Agency shall evaluate in considering an exemption shall 
include, but are not limited to, the current availability of performance chips, the 
high-performance capability of the vehicle and the projected sales volume of the 
vehicle. 
6.1.7.4 
Manufacturers using programmable computer code systems shall deter 
unauthorised reprogramming. Manufacturers shall include enhanced tamper 
protection strategies and write-protect features requiring electronic access to an 
off-site computer maintained by the manufacturer. Methods giving an adequate 
level of tamper protection shall be approved by the Test Agency 
6.1.8 
Rounding 
 
Unless specified elsewhere in this Regulation, paragraphs 6.1.8.1. and 6.1.8.2. 
provide rules for rounding to fulfil the requirements of this Regulation. 
6.1.8.1 
When the digit immediately to the right of the last place to be retained is less 
than 5, that last digit retained shall remain unchanged. 
 
Example 
 
If a result is 1.234 grams but only two places of decimal are to be retained, the 
final result shall be 1.23 grams. 
6.1.8.2 
When the digit immediately to the right of the last place to be retained is greater 
than or equal to 5, that last digit retained shall be increased by 1. 
 
Example 



--- PAGE 32 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 32 of 762 
 
 
 
If a result is 1.236 grams but only two places of decimal are to be retained, and 
because 6 is greater than 5, the final result shall be 1.24 grams. 
6.1.9 
The use of defeat devices that reduce the effectiveness of emission control 
systems shall be prohibited. The prohibition shall not apply where: 
(a) 
 The need for the device is justified in terms of protecting the engine 
against damage or accident and for safe operation of the vehicle; 
(b) 
 The device does not function beyond the requirements of engine starting; 
Or 
(c) 
 The conditions are substantially included in the test procedures for 
verifying evaporative emissions and average tailpipe emissions. 
6.1.10 
In order for the Test Agency to be able to assess the proper use of AES, taking 
into account the prohibition of defeat devices, the manufacturer shall also provide 
an extended documentation package, as described in Appendix 3 Annex A1 of 
this regulation. 
6.1.11 
The extended documentation package referred to in clause 6.1.10 shall remain 
strictly confidential. The package shall be identified and dated by the Test 
Agency and kept by that Test Agency for at least ten years after the approval is 
granted. The extended documentation package shall be transmitted to the Nodal 
Agency upon request. 
6.1.12 
At the request of the manufacturer, the Test agency shall conduct a preliminary 
assessment of the AES for new vehicle types. In that case, the relevant 
documentation shall be provided to the Test agency between 2 and 12 months 
before the start of the type-approval process. 
Test Agency shall make a preliminary assessment on the basis of the extended 
documentation package, as described in Point (b) of Appendix 3 Annex A1 of 
this regulation., provided by the manufacturer. Test agency shall make the 
assessment in accordance with the methodology described in in Appendix 3 
Annex A1 of this regulation. 
Test agency may deviate from that methodology in exceptional and duly justified 
cases. 
The preliminary assessment of the AES for new vehicle types shall remain valid 
for the purposes of type approval for a period of 18 months. That period may 
extend by a further 12 months if the manufacturer provides to the Test Agency 
proof that no new technologies have become accessible in the market that would 
change the preliminary assessment of the AES. 
A list of AES which were deemed non-acceptable by Test agency shall be 
compiled and made available to the public by MoRTH. 



--- PAGE 33 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 33 of 762 
 
 
6.2 
Test Procedure  
 
Table A specifies the various test requirements for type approval of a vehicle 
 
 



--- PAGE 34 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
Page 34 of 762 
 
Table A APPLICABILITY OF TEST REQUIREMENTS FOR TYPE-APPROVAL 
 
Vehicle with Positive Ignition Engines including Hybrids 
Vehicles with Compression Ignition 
Engines including Hybrids 
 
Mono fuel 
Bi-Fuel(1) 
Flex Fuel(1) 
Mono Fuel 
Dual 
Fuel 
Flex 
Fuel 
Reference 
Fuel 
Gasoline 
[(E5)/(E1
0)/ (E 
20)/(E10
0)] (7) 
LPG 
CNG/Bio- 
Methane/ 
Bio-Gas/LNG 
Hydrogen 
(ICE)3 
HCNG(Hy
drogen+C
NG) 
Gasoline [(E5)/ 
(E10)/ (E 
20)/(E100)] 
Gasoline [(E5)/ 
(E10)/ (E 
20)/(E100)] 
Gasoline 
[(E5)/ 
(E10)/ (E 
20)/(E100)] 
 
Ethanol above 
(E20) to 
(E85) 
Diesel 
(B7)5 
Bio-
Diesel 
(B100) 
Diesel 
+CNG 
Bio-
Diesel 
above 
(B7) to 
(B100)5 
LPG 
CNG/Bio- 
Methane 
Hydrogen 
(ICE)(3),(2) 
Gaseous 
Pollutants 
(Type 1 Test) 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes2 
Yes 
Yes (both 
fuels) 
Yes (both fuels) 
Yes (both 
fuels) 
Yes (both fuels) 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Particulate 
Mass and 
Particulate 
Number 
(Type 1 Test) 
Yes4 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Yes4 (Gasoline 
only) 
Yes4 (Gasoline 
only) 
Yes4 
(Gasoline 
only) 
Yes4 (both fuels) 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Idle 
Emissions 
(Type II 
Test) 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
- 
Yes 
Yes (both 
fuels) 
Yes (both fuels) 
Yes 
(Gasoline 
only) 
Yes (both fuels) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Crankcase 
Emissions 
(Type III 
Test) 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
- 
Yes 
Yes (Gasoline 
only) 
Yes (Gasoline 
only) 
Yes 
(Gasoline 
only) 
Yes (E20 only) 
- 
- 
- 
- 



--- PAGE 35 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
Page 35 of 762 
 
Evaporative 
Emissions 
(Type IV 
test) 
 
Yes 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Yes 
(Gasoline only) 
Yes 
(Gasoline only) 
Yes 
(Gasoline 
only) 
Yes 
(E20 only) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Durability 
(Type V 
Test) 
 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
- 
Yes 
Yes 
(Gasoline only) 
Yes 
(Gasoline only) 
Yes 
(Gasoline 
only) 
Yes 
(E20 only) 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
(B8 
only) 
In-Service 
Conformity 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
- 
Yes 
Yes 
(both fuels) 
Yes 
(both fuels) 
Yes 
(Gasoline 
only) 
 
Yes 
(both fuels) 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
(B8 only 
On-Board 
Diagnostics 
and IUPRm 
 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
CO2 
emission 
and fuel 
consumption 
 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
(both fuels) 
Yes 
(both fuels) 
Yes 
(both fuels) 
Yes 
(both fuels) 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
(both 
fuels) 
Smoke 
Opacity 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Yes 
Yes 
- 
Yes 
Engine 
Power 
 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
(both fuels) 
Yes 
(both fuels) 
Yes 
(both fuels) 
Yes 
(both fuels) 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
RDE gaseous 
emissions 
test 
applicability 
 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes(2) 
Yes 
Yes (both 
fuels) 
Yes (both fuels) 
Yes (both 
fuels) 
Yes (both fuels) 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
RDE PN 
emissions 
test 
applicability 
(4) 
Yes 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Yes (Gasoline 
only) 
Yes (Gasoline 
only) 
Yes 
(Gasoline 
only) 
Yes (both fuels) 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 



--- PAGE 36 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
Page 36 of 762 
 
 
 
 
1) When a bi-fuel  vehicle  has  flex  fuel option, both tet requirements  are applicable . Vehicle tested with E100 need not to be tested for E85. 
2) Only NOx emissions shall be  determined when the vehcicle is  running on Hydrogen. 
3) Reference fuel is “ Hydrogen for internal combustion Engine” as specified in Annexure IV-W. 
4) For positive ignition , particulate mass and number limits for vehicles with positive ignition engines including hybrids shall apply only to 
vehicles with direct ignition engines. 
5) Vehicles fuelled with Bio diesel blends up to 7% will be tested with reference diesel 
(B7) & vehicles fuelled with Bio diesel blends upto 7% will be tested with respective blends. 
6) CO2 emission and fuel consumption shall be measured as per procedure laid down in this part and as amended time to time. 



--- PAGE 37 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 37 of 762 
 
6.2.6 
Each of the vehicle families specified below shall be attributed a unique 
identifier of the following format: 
 
FT-nnnnnnnnnnnnnnn-WMI 
 
Where: 
 
FT is an identifier of the family type: 
 
(a) 
IP = Interpolation family as defined in paragraph 6.3.2. with or without 
using the interpolation method 
 
(b) 
RL = Road load family as defined in paragraph 6.3.3. 
 
(c) 
RM = Road load matrix family as defined in paragraph 6.3.4. 
 
(d) 
PR = Periodically regenerating systems (Ki) family as defined in 
paragraph 6.3.5.  
 
(e) 
EV = Evaporative emissions family, as defined in paragraph 6.6.3. 
 
(f) 
DF = Durability family, as defined in paragraph 6.7.5 
 
(g) 
OB = OBD family identifier, as defined paragraph 6.8.1. 
 
(h) 
ER = Exhaust after-treatment system using reagent (ER)family identifier, 
as defined in paragraph 6.9.2. 
 
nnnnnnnnnnnnnnn is a string with a maximum of fifteen characters, restricted 
to using the characters 0-9, A-Z and the underscore character '_'.  
 
WMI (world manufacturer identifier) is a code that identifies the manufacturer 
in a unique manner defined in ISO 3780:2009.  
 
It is the responsibility of the owner of the WMI to ensure that the combination 
of the string nnnnnnnnnnnnnnn and the WMI is unique to the family and that 
the string nnnnnnnnnnnnnnn is unique within that WMI to the approval tests 
performed to obtain the approval. 
6.3 
Description of Type I test (WLTP) 
 
The Type I test shall be carried out on all vehicles referred to in paragraph 1. 
The test procedures and requirements of this paragraph and Annexes Part B 
shall be followed (as applicable). 
6.3.1 
The Type I test shall be performed according to: 
 
(a) 
The WLTCs as described in Annex B1; 
(b) 
The gear selection and shift point determination as described in Annex 
B2; 



--- PAGE 38 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 38 of 762 
 
(c) 
The appropriate fuel(s) as specified in Annex B3; 
(d) 
The road load and dynamometer settings as described in Annex B4; 
(e) 
The test equipment as described in Annex B5; 
(f) 
The test procedures as described in Annexes B6 and B8; 
(g) 
The methods of calculation as described in Annexes B7 and B8. 
6.3.2 
Interpolation family 
6.3.2.1 
Interpolation family 
 
 for pure ICE vehicles 
6.3.2.1.1 
Vehicles may be part of the same interpolation family in any of the following 
cases including combinations of these cases: 
(a) 
They belong to different vehicle classes as described in paragraph 2. of 
Annex B1; 
(b) 
They have different levels of downscaling as described in paragraph 8. of 
Annex B1; 
(c) 
They have different capped speeds as described in paragraph 9. of Annex 
B1. 
6.3.2.1.2 
Only vehicles that are identical with respect to the following vehicle/power-
train/transmission characteristics may be part of the same interpolation family: 
(a) 
Type of internal combustion engine: fuel type (or types in the case of 
flex-fuel or bi-fuel vehicles), combustion process, engine capacity, full-
load characteristics, engine technology, and charging system, and also 
other engine subsystems or characteristics that have a non-negligible 
influence on CO2 mass emission under WLTP conditions; 
(b) 
Operation strategy of all CO2 mass emission influencing components 
within the powertrain; 
(c) 
Transmission type (e.g. manual, automatic, CVT) and transmission 
model (e.g. torque rating, number of gears, number of clutches, etc.); 
(d) 
n/v ratios (engine rotational speed divided by vehicle speed). This 
requirement shall be considered fulfilled if, for all transmission ratios 
concerned, the difference with respect to n/v ratios of the most commonly 
installed transmission type is within 8 per cent; 
(e) 
Number of powered axles. 



--- PAGE 39 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 39 of 762 
 
6.3.2.1.3 
If an alternative parameter such as a higher nmin_drive, as specified in 
paragraph 2.(k) of Annex B2, or ASM, as defined in paragraph 3.4. of Annex 
B2 is used, this parameter shall be the same within an interpolation family. 
6.3.2.2 
Interpolation family for NOVC-HEVs and OVC-HEVs 
In addition to the requirements of paragraph 6.3.2.1., only OVC-HEVs and 
NOVC-HEVs that are identical with respect to the following characteristics 
may be part of the same interpolation family: 
(a) 
Type and number of electric machines: construction type (asynchronous/ 
synchronous, etc.), type of coolant (air, liquid) and any other 
characteristics having a non-negligible influence on CO2 mass emission 
and electric energy consumption under WLTP conditions; 
(b) 
Type of traction REESS ( model, capacity, nominal voltage, nominal 
power, type of coolant (air, liquid)); 
(c) 
Type of electric energy converter between the electric machine and 
traction REESS, between the traction REESS and low voltage power 
supply and between the recharge-plug-in and traction REESS, and any 
other characteristics having a non-negligible influence on CO2 mass 
emission and electric energy consumption under WLTP conditions. 
At the request of the manufacturer and with the approval of the Test 
Agency, electric energy converters between recharge-plug-in and traction 
REESS with lower recharge losses may be included in the family; 
(d) 
The difference between the number of charge-depleting cycles from the 
beginning of the test up to and including the transition cycle shall not be 
more than one. 
6.3.2.3 
Interpolation family for PEVs 
Only PEVs that are identical with respect to the following electric 
powertrain/transmission characteristics may be part of the same interpolation 
family: 
(a) 
Type and number of electric machines: construction type (asynchronous/ 
synchronous, etc.), type of coolant (air, liquid) and any other 
characteristics having a non-negligible influence on electric energy 
consumption and range under WLTP conditions; 
(b) 
Type of traction REESS (model, capacity, nominal voltage, nominal 
power, type of coolant (air, liquid)); 
(c) 
Transmission type (e.g. manual, automatic, CVT) and transmission 
model (e.g. torque rating, number of gears, numbers of clutches, etc.); 
(d) 
Number of powered axles; 



--- PAGE 40 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 40 of 762 
 
(e) 
Type of electric energy converter between the electric machine and 
traction REESS, between the traction REESS and low voltage power 
supply and between the recharge-plug-in and traction REESS, and any 
other characteristics having a non-negligible influence on electric energy 
consumption and range under WLTP conditions. 
At the request of the manufacturer and with the approval of the Test 
Agency, electric energy converters between recharge-plug-in and traction 
REESS with lower recharge losses may be included in the family; 
(f) 
Operation strategy of all components influencing the electric energy 
consumption within the powertrain; 
(g) 
n/v ratios (engine rotational speed divided by vehicle speed). This 
requirement shall be considered fulfilled if, for all transmission ratios 
concerned, the difference with respect to the n/v ratios of the most 
commonly installed transmission type and model is within 8 per cent. 
6.3.2.4 
Interpolation family for OVC-FCHVs and NOVC-FCHVs 
Only OVC-FCHVs and NOVC-FCHVs that are identical with respect to the 
following electric powertrain/fuel cell/transmission characteristics may be part 
of the same interpolation family: 
(i) 
Type and number of electric machines: construction type (asynchronous/ 
synchronous, etc.), type of coolant (air, liquid) and any other 
characteristics having a non-negligible influence on fuel consumption 
and electric energy consumption under WLTP conditions; 
(ii) 
Type of fuel cell (model, nominal voltage, type of coolant (air, liquid)), 
and also other fuel cell subsystems or characteristics that have a non-
negligible influence on fuel consumption under WLTP conditions; 
(iii) Type of traction REESS (type of cell, model, capacity, nominal voltage, 
nominal power, type of coolant (air, liquid)); 
(iv) Transmission type (e.g. manual, automatic, CVT) and transmission 
model (e.g. torque rating, number of gears, numbers of clutches, etc.); 
(v) 
Number of powered axles; 
(vi) Type of electric energy converter between the electric machine and 
traction REESS, between the traction REESS and low voltage power 
supply and between the recharge-plug-in and traction REESS, and any 
other characteristics having a non-negligible influence on fuel 
consumption (or fuel efficiency) and electric energy consumption under 
WLTP conditions. At the request of the manufacturer and with the 
approval of the Test Agency, electric energy converters between 
recharge-plug-in and traction REESS with lower recharge losses may be 
included in the family.; 



--- PAGE 41 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 41 of 762 
 
(vii) Operation strategy of all components influencing the fuel consumption 
(or fuel efficiency) and electric energy consumption within the 
powertrain; 
(viii) n/v ratios. This requirement shall be considered fulfilled if, for all 
transmission ratios concerned, the difference with respect to the n/v ratios 
of the most commonly installed transmission type and model is within 8 
per cent. 
6.3.2.5 
KCO2 correction factor family for OVC-HEVs and NOVC-HEVs 
It is allowed to merge two or more interpolation families into the same KCO2 
correction factor family if newly merged interpolation families meet at least 
one of the following criteria defined in (a) to (e) of this paragraph. The 
representative KCO2 shall be determined with preferably highest energy 
demand vehicle H within a family 
At the request of the Test Agency, the manufacturer shall provide evidence on 
the justification and technical criteria for merging these interpolation families 
for example in the following cases: 
Two or more interpolation families are merged: 
(a) 
Which were split because the maximum interpolation range of 20 g/km 
CO2 is exceeded (in case vehicle M measured: 30g/km); 
(b) 
Which were split due to different engine power ratings of the same 
physical combustion engine 
 
(different power only related to software) 
(c) 
Which were split because the n/v ratios are just outside the tolerance of 
8%; 
(d) 
Which were split, but still fulfil all the family criteria of a single IP 
family. 
(e) 
Which were split because there is different number of powered axles 
Different electric energy converters between recharge-plug-in and traction 
REESS shall not be considered as a criterion in the context of the correction 
factor family. 
6.3.3 
Road load family 
Only vehicles that are identical with respect to the following characteristics 
may be part of the same road load family: 
(a) 
Transmission type (e.g. manual, automatic, CVT) and transmission 
model (e.g. torque rating, number of gears, number of clutches, etc.). At 



--- PAGE 42 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 42 of 762 
 
the request of the manufacturer and with approval of the Test Agency, a 
transmission with lower power losses may be included in the family; 
(b) 
n/v ratios (engine rotational speed divided by vehicle speed). This 
requirement shall be considered fulfilled if, for all transmission ratios 
concerned, the difference with respect to the transmission ratios of the 
most commonly installed transmission type is within 25 per cent; 
(c) 
Number of powered axles; 
 
If at least one electric machine is coupled in the gearbox position neutral 
and the vehicle is not equipped with a coastdown mode (paragraph 
4.2.1.8.5. of Annex B4) such that the electric machine has no influence 
on the road load, the criteria in paragraph 6.3.2.2. (a) and paragraph 
6.3.2.3. (a) shall apply. 
 
If there is a difference, apart from vehicle mass, rolling resistance and 
aerodynamics, that has a non-negligible influence on road load, that 
vehicle shall not be considered to be part of the family unless approved 
by the Test Agency. 
6.3.4 
Road load matrix family 
The road load matrix family may be applied for vehicles with a technically 
permissible maximum laden mass ≥ 3,000 kg 
Vehicles with a technically permissible maximum laden mass ≥ 2,500 kg may 
be part of the road load matrix family provided the driver seat R-point height 
is above 850 mm from the ground. 
“R-point” means “R” point or “seating reference point” as defined in paragraph 
2.4. of Annex 1 to the Consolidated Resolution on the Construction of Vehicles 
(R.E.3.). 
Only vehicles which are identical with respect to the following characteristics 
may be part of the same road load matrix family 
(a) 
Transmission type (e.g. manual, automatic, CVT); 
(b) 
Number of powered axles. 
6.3.5 
Periodically regenerating systems (Ki) family 
Only vehicles that are identical with respect to the following characteristics 
may be part of the same periodically regenerating systems family: 
(a) 
Type of internal combustion engine: fuel type, combustion process, 
(b) 
Periodically regenerating system (i.e. catalyst, particulate trap); 



--- PAGE 43 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 43 of 762 
 
(i) 
 Construction (i.e. type of enclosure, type of precious metal, type 
of substrate, cell density); 
(ii) 
 Type and working principle; 
(iii)  Volume ±10 per cent; 
(iv)  Location (temperature ±100 °C at second highest reference 
speed). 
(c) 
The test mass of each vehicle in the family shall be less than or equal to 
the test mass of the vehicle used for the Ki demonstration test plus 250 
kg. 
6.3.6 
Reserved 
6.3.6.3.2 
With regard to requirements of paragraph 6.3.6.3.1. (c) and (d): 
 
In the case where a demonstration shows that two gas-fuelled vehicles could 
be members of the same family with the exception of their certified power 
output, respectively P1 and P2 (P1 < P2), and both are tested as if were parent 
vehicles the family relation will be considered valid for any vehicle with a 
certified power output between 0.7 P1 and 1.15 P2. 
6.3.7 
Reserved 
6.3.8 
Reserved 
6.3.9 
Reserved 
6.3.10 
Limits for gaseous emissions and the mass of particulates and number of 
particles (if PN measurement is required) as specified in applicable Gazette 
Notification. 
6.4 
Type II Test (Emission Test at Idling Speed) 
6.4.1 
This test is carried out on all vehicles powered by positive-ignition engines 
having: 
6.4.1.1 
Vehicles that can be fueled either with gasoline or with LPG or NG/biomethane 
shall be tested in the test Type II on both fuels. 
6.4.1.2 
Notwithstanding the requirement of clause 6.4.1.1 of this Regulation, Vehicles 
that can be fueled with either gasoline or a gaseous fuel, but where the gasoline 
system is fitted for emergency purposes or starting only and which the gasoline 
tank cannot contain more than 5 litres of gasoline will be regarded for the test 
Type II as vehicles that can only run on a gaseous fuel. 
6.4.2 
For the Type II test set out in Annex C1 of this Regulation, at normal engine 
idling speed, the maximum permissible carbon monoxide content in the 



--- PAGE 44 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 44 of 762 
 
exhaust gases shall be that stated by the vehicle manufacturer. However the 
maximum content of gaseous pollutant shall not exceed the notified limits. 
 
At high idle speed, the carbon monoxide content by volume of the exhaust 
gases shall not exceed notified value, with the engine speed being at least 2,000 
min-1 and Lambda being as per CMVR 116 or in accordance with the 
specifications of the manufacturer. 
6.5 
Type III test (Verifying Emissions of Crankcase Gases) 
6.5.1 
This test shall be carried out on all vehicles referred in paragraph 1 of this 
Regulation, except those having compression-ignition engines. 
6.5.1.1 
Vehicles that can be fueled either with gasoline or with LPG or NG should be 
tested in the Type III test on gasoline only. 
6.5.1.2 
Notwithstanding the requirement of clause 6.5.1.1 of this Regulation, vehicles 
that can be fueled with either gasoline or a gaseous fuel, but where the gasoline 
system is fitted for emergency purposes or starting only and which the gasoline 
tank cannot contain more than 5 liters of gasoline will be regarded for the test 
Type III as vehicles that can only run on a gaseous fuel. 
6.5.2 
The engine's crankcase ventilation system shall not permit the emission of any 
of the crankcase gases into the atmosphere, when tested in accordance with 
Annex C3 of this Part. 
6.6 
Type IV test (Determination of evaporative emissions) 
6.6.1 
The Type IV test shall be carried out on all vehicles with a petrol tank in 
accordance with the requirements of paragraphs 6.6.2. to 6.6.4. and Annex C3. 
6.6.2 
When tested in accordance with Annex C3 to this Regulation, evaporative 
emissions shall be less than that specified in Table 2. 
 
Table 2 
 
Emission limit for evaporative emissions test 
 
Mass of Evaporative Emission (g/test) 
As specified in Gazette Notification 
6.6.3 
Evaporative emission family 
6.6.3.1 
Only vehicles that are identical with respect to the characteristics listed in (a), 
(d) and (e), technically equivalent with respect to the characteristics listed in 
(b) and (c) and similar or, where applicable, within the stated tolerance 
regarding the characteristics listed in (f) and (g) may be part of the same 
evaporative emission family: 



--- PAGE 45 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 45 of 762 
 
(a) 
Fuel tank system material and construction; 
(b) 
Vapour hose material; 
(c) 
Fuel line material and connection technique; 
(d) 
Sealed tank or non-sealed tank system; 
(e) 
Fuel tank relief valve setting (air ingestion and relief); 
(f) 
Carbon canister butane working capacity (BWC300) within a 10 per cent 
range of the highest value (for carbon canisters with the same type of 
charcoal, the volume of charcoal shall be within 10 per cent of that for 
which the BWC300 was determined); 
(g) 
Purge control system (for example, type of valve, purge control strategy). 
 
The manufacturer shall demonstrate the technical equivalence of points (b) and 
(c) to the Test Agency. 
6.6.3.2 
The vehicle shall be considered to produce worst-case evaporative emissions 
and shall be used for testing if it has the largest ratio of fuel tank capacity to 
BWC300 within the family. The vehicle selection shall be agreed in advance 
with the Test Agency. 
6.6.3.3 
The use of any innovative system calibration, configuration, or hardware 
related to the evaporative control system shall place the vehicle model in a 
different family. 
6.6.4 
The Test Agency  shall not grant type approval if the information provided is 
insufficient to demonstrate that the evaporative emissions are effectively 
limited during the normal use of the vehicle. 
6.7 
Type V test (Description of the endurance test for verifying the durability of 
pollution control devices) 
6.7.1 
This test shall be carried out on all vehicles referred to in paragraph 1. to which 
the test specified in paragraph 6.3. applies. The test represents an ageing test 
up to the target useful life driven in accordance with the programme described 
in Annex C4 to this Regulation on a test track, on the road or on a chassis 
dynamometer. 
 
The target useful life is 160,000 km. 
6.7.1.1 
Vehicles that can be fuelled either with petrol or with LPG or NG should be 
tested in the Type V test on petrol only. In that case the deterioration factor 
found with unleaded petrol will also be taken for LPG or NG. 
6.7.1.2 
Special requirements for hybrid vehicles are provided in Appendix 4 to 
Annex C4. 



--- PAGE 46 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 46 of 762 
 
6.7.2 
Notwithstanding the requirement of paragraph 6.7.1., a manufacturer may 
choose to have the assigned deterioration factors as per Gazette Notification. 
6.7.3 
(Reserved) 
6.7.4 
Deterioration factors are determined using one of the procedures specified in 
paragraph 1.1. of Annex C4 (as applicable). The factors are used to establish 
compliance with the requirements of paragraphs 6.3. and 8.2. 
6.7.5 
Durability family 
Only vehicles whose engine or pollution control system parameters are 
identical or remain within the prescribed tolerances with reference to the 
vehicle used for the determination of the Deterioration Factor may be part of 
the same Durability family: 
(a) 
Engine  
(i) 
 Ratio between engine cylinder capacity and the volume of each 
catalytic component and/or filter (-10 to +5 per cent); 
(ii) 
 Difference in engine capacity within either ±15 per cent of the 
capacity of the tested vehicle or 820 cm3 whichever value is 
lower; 
(iii)  Cylinder configuration (number of cylinders, shape, distance 
between bores and other configurations); 
(iv)  Number of valves, control of valves, and camshaft driven 
method; 
(v) 
 Fuel type and fuel system, 
(vi)  Combustion process. 
(b) 
Pollution control system parameters: 
(i) 
 Catalytic converters and particulate filters: 
 
number and layout of catalytic converters, filters and elements, 
 
type of catalytic activity (oxidizing, three-way, lean NOx trap, 
SCR, lean NOx catalyst or other), and filtering characteristics; 
 
precious metal load (identical or higher), 
 
precious metal type and ratio (± 15 per cent), 
 
substrate (structure and material), 
 
cell density. 



--- PAGE 47 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 47 of 762 
 
(ii) 
 Air injection: 
 
with or without 
 
type (pulsair, air pumps, other(s)) 
(iii)  EGR: 
 
with or without 
 
type (cooled or non-cooled, active or passive control, high 
pressure/low pressure/combined pressure). 
(iv)  other devices having an influence on durability. 
6.8 
On-board diagnostics OBD – Test 
 
This test shall be carried out on vehicle types as indicated in Table A. The test 
procedure described in paragraph 3. of Annex C5 to this Regulation shall be 
followed. 
6.8.1 
OBD family 
6.8.1.1 
Parameters defining the OBD family 
The OBD family means a manufacturer's grouping of vehicles which, through 
their design, are expected to have similar exhaust emission and OBD system 
characteristics. Each engine of this family shall comply with the requirements 
of this Regulation. 
The OBD family may be defined by basic design parameters which shall be 
common to vehicles within the family. In some cases there may be interaction 
of parameters. These effects shall also be taken into consideration to ensure 
that only vehicles with similar exhaust emission characteristics are included 
within an OBD family. 
6.8.1.2 
To this end, those vehicles whose parameters described below are identical 
may be considered to belong to the same OBD family. 
Engine: 
(a) 
Combustion process (i.e. positive ignition, compression-ignition, two-
stroke, four-stroke/rotary); 
(b) 
Method of engine fuelling (i.e. single or multi-point fuel injection); and 
(c) 
Fuel type (i.e. petrol, diesel, flex fuel petrol/ethanol, flex fuel diesel/ 
biodiesel, NG/biomethane, LPG, bi fuel petrol/NG/biomethane, bi-fuel 
petrol/LPG). 
Emission control system: 



--- PAGE 48 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 48 of 762 
 
(a) 
Type of catalytic converter (i.e. oxidation, three-way, heated catalyst, 
SCR, other); 
(b) 
Type of particulate trap; 
(c) 
Secondary air injection (i.e. with or without); and 
(d) 
Exhaust gas recirculation (i.e. with or without); 
(e) 
Pressure charger: (Yes/No) Turbocharger / Supercharger 
OBD parts and functioning: 
The methods of OBD functional monitoring malfunction detection and 
malfunction indication to the vehicle driver 
6.8.2 
OBD thresholds 
 
The OBD thresholds are as specified in Gazette Notification. 
6.9 
Test for vehicles that use a reagent for the exhaust after-treatment system 
6.9.1 
Vehicles that use a reagent for the exhaust after-treatment system shall meet 
the requirements specified in Appendix 6 to this Regulation. 
6.9.2 
Exhaust after-treatment system using reagent (ER) family definition 
Only vehicles that are identical with respect to the following characteristics 
may be part of the same ER family: 
(a) 
 Reagent injector (principle, construction) 
(b) 
 Reagent injector location 
(c) 
 Detection strategies (for reagent level, dosing and quality or for reagent 
level and monitoring NOx emissions) 
(d) 
 Warning display: messages, tell-tales lighting sequences and audible 
component sequences, if any 
(e) 
 Inducement option 
(f) 
 NOx sensor (application of option described in paragraph 6 of 
Appendix 6) or reagent quality sensor (application of option described 
in paragraphs 4 and 5 of Appendix 6) 
 
The manufacturer and the Test Agency shall agree which vehicle model is 
representative for the ER family. 
6.10 
Free Acceleration Smoke Test 



--- PAGE 49 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 49 of 762 
 
This test shall be carried out on all vehicles referred in Paragraph 1 except those 
vehicles having a positive-ignition engine, vehicles fueled with LPG or 
NG/biomethane 
The test procedure described in Annex C1 of this standard  shall be followed. 
6.11 
Real Driving Emission (RDE) Test 
 
This test shall be carried out on all vehicles referred in Paragraph 1. The test 
procedure described in Annex C6 of this standard shall be followed. 
7.0 
Modification and Extension of the Type Approval  
7.1 
Every modification of the vehicle type shall be notified to the Test Agency that 
approved the vehicle type. The Test Agency may then either: 
7.1.1 
Consider that the modifications made are contained within the families covered 
by the approval or are unlikely to have an appreciable adverse effect on the 
values of CO2 and fuel consumption or electric energy consumption and that, 
in this case, the original approval will be valid for the modified vehicle type; 
or 
7.1.2 
Require a further test report from the Test Agency responsible for conducting 
the tests. 
7.2 
Reserved 
7.3 
Reserved 
7.4 
Extensions for tailpipe emissions (Type I test) 
7.4.1 
The type-approval shall be extended without the need for further testing to 
vehicles if they conform to the criteria of paragraph 3.0.1. (a) and (c). 
Additionally to the criteria above, in the cases when the Interpolation Family 
Vehicle High and/ or Vehicle Low are changed, the new Vehicle High and/or 
Vehicle Low shall be tested and the CO2 emission of the tested vehicle resulting 
from step 9 of Table A7/1 of Annex B7 and step 8 of Table A8/5 in Annex B8 
shall be less than or equal to the CO2 emission which lies on a straight line 
through the CO2 values of the original Vehicles Low and High when plotted 
against cycle energy and corresponding to the cycle energy demand of the 
tested vehicle. 
The measured criteria emissions shall respect the limits set out in 
paragraph 6.3.10. 
7.4.1.1 
If The type-approval has been granted only in relation to Vehicle High, it shall 
only be extended under the circumstances (a), (b) or (c) below: 



--- PAGE 50 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 50 of 762 
 
(a) 
 To include additional vehicles which conform to the criteria of 
paragraph 3.0.1. (a) and (c) and have a cycle energy lower than that of 
Vehicle High. 
(b) 
 To create an interpolation family by testing Vehicle Low (preferably 
using the vehicle which was tested as Vehicle High for the original 
approval). In this case all vehicles covered by the extended approval 
shall conform to the criteria of paragraph 3.0.1. (a), (b) and (c). 
(c) 
 To create an interpolation family by renaming Vehicle High as Vehicle 
Low and testing Vehicle High (preferably using the vehicle which was 
tested as Vehicle High for the original approval). In this case all 
vehicles covered by the extended approval shall conform to the criteria 
of paragraph 3.0.1. (a), (b) and (c). 
7.4.2 
Vehicles with periodically regenerating systems 
 
For Ki tests undertaken under Appendix 1 to Annex B6, the type-approval shall 
be extended to vehicles if they conform to the criteria of paragraph 6.3.5. 
7.5 
Extensions for evaporative emissions (Type IV test) 
7.5.1 
For tests performed in accordance with Annex C3 the type-approval shall be 
extended to vehicles belonging to an approved evaporative emission family as 
defined in paragraph 6.6.3. 
7.6 
Extensions for durability of pollution control devices (Type V test) 
7.6.1 
For tests performed in accordance with Annex C4 the deterioration factors shall 
be extended to different vehicles and vehicle types, provided that both of the 
following conditions apply: 
(a) 
 The vehicles belong to the same Durability family, as defined in the 
paragraph 6.7.5.; 
(b) 
 The worst case Deterioration Factor (DF) derived within the Durability 
Family is applied. If vehicles with a cycle energy demand higher than 
that of the vehicle for which the DFs were established are to be included 
by extension, the worst case DF is determined on the vehicle with the 
highest temperature at the inlet of the pollution control system, 
measured as prescribed in paragraph 7.6.2. 
7.6.2 
The temperature at the inlet of the pollution control device shall be lower than 
the temperature of the vehicle tested for DF determination plus 50°C. It shall 
be checked under following stabilized conditions. A vehicle meeting the 
requirements of paragraph 1.2. of Annex C4 for the extended durability family 
shall be brought to a speed of the maximum vehicle speed minus 10km/h or 
120 km/h, whichever is lower, and kept at that constant speed for at least 15 
minutes at the load setting of the Type I test. At any time after this period, the 
temperature at catalyst inlet shall be measured for at least 2 continued minutes 



--- PAGE 51 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 51 of 762 
 
while the vehicle is kept at that constant speed and the average temperature 
value shall be taken as representative value. 
7.7 
Extension for OBD 
 
For OBD the type approval can be extended to vehicles belonging to an 
approved OBD family as defined in paragraph 6.8.1. 
8.0 
Conformity of Production (CoP) 
8.1 
Every produced vehicle of the model approved under this regulation shall 
conform, with regard to components affecting the the emissions of gaseous 
compounds, including particulate matter, particle number (if PN measurement 
is required), CO2 and fuel consumption or electric energy consumption (if 
applicable)., crankcase emissions, Evaporative emissions & On Board 
Diagnostic (OBD), to the vehicle model type approved. The administrative 
procedure for carrying out conformity of production is given in AIS-137 (Part 
6). 
The results shall be multiplied by the deterioration factors used at the time of 
type approval and in the case of periodically regenerating systems 
multiplicative or additive Ki factor shall be applied to the results obtained by 
the procedure specified in Annex B6 - Appendix 1 of this Regulation at the 
time when type approval was granted. The result masses of gaseous emissions 
and in addition in case of vehicles equipped with compression ignition engines 
and GDI Gasoline engines, the mass of particulates and particulate numbers 
obtained in the test shall not exceed the applicable limits. 
The specific procedures for conformity of production are set out in 
paragraphs 8.2. to 8.4. and Appendices 1 to 4. 
 
Table 8/1 
 
Reserved 
 
Table 8/2 
 
Type IVApplicable Type IV CoP requirements for the different vehicle 
types 
Vehicle type 
Evaporative emissions 
ICE 
Yes (1) 
NOVC-HEV 
Yes (1) 
OVC-HEV 
Yes (1) 
PEV 
Not Applicable 
NOVC-FCHV 
Not Applicable 



--- PAGE 52 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 52 of 762 
 
OVC-FCHV 
Not Applicable 
(1) Only for vehicles fuelled by petrol 
8.1.3 
Reserved 
8.1.4 
Reserved 
8.1.5 
Reserved 
8.1.6 
Reserved 
8.1.7 
Reserved 
8.1.8 
Reserved 
8.1.9 
Reserved 
8.2 
Checking the conformity for a Type I test 
8.2.1 
The Type I test shall be carried out on a minimum of three production 
vehicles, 
8.2.2 
Vehicles shall be selected at random. The manufacturer shall not undertake 
any adjustment to the vehicles selected except those permitted in AIS 137 
Part 6. 
8.2.3 
Type I test procedure 
8.2.3.1 
Where applicable, in accordance with Table 8/1, the verification of the criteria 
emissions, CO2 emissions, or electric energy consumption (if applicable). shall 
be carried out in accordance with the specific requirements and procedures in 
Appendix 1 
8.2.3.2 
The statistical procedure for calculating the test criteria and to arrive at a pass 
or fail decision is described in Appendix 2 to this annex and in the flowchart 
of Figure 8/1 
Where applicable, in accordance with Table 8/1, the CoP shall be deemed to 
not conform when a fail decision is reached in accordance with the test criteria 
in Appendix 2 to this annex. for one or more of the criteria emissions, CO2 
emissions, or electric energy consumption (if applicable). 
Where applicable, in accordance with Table 8/1,  the CoP shall be deemed to 
conform once a pass decision is reached in accordance with the test criteria in 
Appendix 2 to this annex for all the criteria emissions, CO2 emissions, or 
electric energy consumption (if applicable). 
Where applicable, in accordance with Table 8/1 , when a pass decision has been 
reached for one criteria emission, that decision shall not be changed by any 



--- PAGE 53 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 53 of 762 
 
additional tests carried out to reach a decision for the other criteria emissions, 
CO2 emissions, or electric energy consumption (if applicable). 
Where applicable, in accordance with Table 8/1 , if a pass decision is not 
reached for all the criteria emissions, CO2 emissions, or electric energy 
consumption (if applicable), another vehicle is added to the sample by selecting 
this according to paragraph 2.2. and performing the Type I test. The statistical 
procedure described in Appendix 2 to this annex shall be repeated until a pass 
decision is reached for all the criteria emissions, CO2 emissions and electric 
energy consumption(if applicable). 
 
The maximum sample size shall be 16 vehicles for criteria emissions and 
CO2. 
8.2.3.3 
However, in case of vehicle model and its variants produced less than 250 in 
the half yearly period as mentioned in clause 3.1.1 of  AIS-137 (Part 6) sample 
size shall be one. The deterioration factors are used in the same way. The limit 
values are as specified in applicable Gazette Notification. 
To verify the average tailpipe emissions of gaseous pollutants of low volume 
vehicles with annual production less than 250 per 6 months, manufacture can 
choose from the Appendix 2a or Appendix 2b of this regulation. 
Figure 8/1 
Flowchart of the CoP test procedure for the Type I test 



--- PAGE 54 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 54 of 762 
 
 
8.2.4 
Run-in factors 
8.2.4.1 
At the request of the manufacturer and with the acceptance of the Test Agency, 
a run-in test procedure may be carried out on a vehicle of the CoP  to establish 
derived run-in factors for criteria emissions, CO2 emissions, and/or electric 
energy consumption (if applicable) according to the test procedure in Appendix 
3 
8.2.4.2 
For the application of derived run-in factors, the system odometer of the CoP 
test vehicle Dj shall preferably be within -10 km of the mileage at the start of 
the 1st test and +10 km of the mileage at the start of the 2nd test on the run-in 
test vehicle Di, prior to when it was run in. 
8.2.4.3 
At the option of the manufacturer, for CO2 emissions, in g/km an assigned run-
in factor of 0.98 may be applied if the system odometer setting at the start of 
the CoP test is less than or equal to 100 km. 
 
If the assigned run-in factors for CO2 emissions is applied, no run-in factors 
shall be applied for criteria emissions and electric energy consumption. 
8.2.4.4 
The run-in factor shall be applied to the CoP test result that is calculated 
according to Step 4c of Table A7/1 in Annex B7 or Step 4c in Table A8/5 of 
Annex B8. 



--- PAGE 55 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 55 of 762 
 
8.2.5 
Test fuel 
 
All CoP tests shall be conducted with commercial fuel. However, at the 
manufacturer’s request, the reference fuels specified in Gazette Notification 
may be used for the Type I test. 
8.2.5.1 
For the Type IV test, the reference fuel shall be used in accordance with the 
specifications in paragraph 7. of Annex B3. 
8.2.5.2 
Tests for conformity of production of vehicles fuelled by LPG or 
NG/biomethane may be performed with a commercial fuel of which the C3/C4 
ratio lies between those of the reference fuels in the case of LPG, or of one of 
the high or low caloric fuels in the case of NG/biomethane. In all cases a fuel 
analysis shall be presented to the Test Agency. 
8.2.6 
Criteria for validity of speed trace tolerances and drive trace indices of the Type 
I CoP test 
 
The speed trace tolerances and drive trace indices shall fulfil the criteria 
specified in paragraph 2.6.8.3. of Annex B6. 
8.3 
Checking the conformity for a Type IV test 
8.3.1 
The production shall be deemed to conform if the vehicle selected and tested 
according AIS 137 (Part 6) meets the requirements of all of those tests. 
8.3.2 
If the vehicle tested does not satisfy the requirements of paragraph 8.3.1., a 
further random sample of four vehicles shall be taken from the same family 
without unjustified delay and subjected to the tests described in Appendix 4. 
 
The production shall be deemed to conform if the requirements are met for at 
least three of these vehicles within 6 months after the initial failed test has been 
detected. 
8.3.3 
If the vehicles tested do not satisfy the requirements of paragraph 8.3.2, a 
further random sample shall be taken without unjustified delay and subjected 
to the tests described in Annex C3. 
 
If the vehicle tested does not satisfy the requirements of Annex C3, a further 
random sample of four vehicles shall be taken, and also subjected without 
unjustified delay to the tests described in Annex C3. 
 
On request of the manufacturer, for CoP tests described in Annex C3 the 
Permeability Factor (PF) derived at Type Approval or the Assigned 
Permeability Factor (APF) may be applied 
 
The production shall be deemed to conform if the requirements are met for at 
least three of these vehicles within 24 months after the initial failed test has 
been detected. 



--- PAGE 56 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 56 of 762 
 
8.3.3.1 
For CoP tests described in Annex C3  which are performed on a vehicle which 
has completed a mileage of less than 20,000 km a canister which has been aged 
according to paragraph 5.1. of Annex C3  shall be used. This can be the original 
canister from the test vehicle or another canister of identical specification. On 
request of the manufacturer for these tests either the Permeability Factor (PF) 
as defined in the paragraph 5.2. of Annex C3  which was established at Type 
Approval for the evaporative family or the Assigned Permeability Factor (APF) 
also defined in the paragraph 5.2. of Annex C3 shall be applied. 
8.3.3.2 
On request of the manufacturer, CoP tests described in Annex C3 may be 
carried out on a vehicle which has completed a minimum mileage of 20,000 
km up to a maximum of 30,000 km with no modifications to the vehicle other 
than those described in the test procedure. When the test is carried out on a 
vehicle which has completed a mileage of between 20,000 km and 30,000 km, 
the canister aging shall be omitted and the Permeability Factor or Assigned 
Permeability Factor shall not be applied. 
 
Independent of the accumulated mileage of the vehicle, non-fuel background 
emission sources (e.g. paint, adhesives, plastics, fuel/vapour lines, tyres, and 
other rubber or polymer components) can be eliminated according to paragraph 
6.1. of Annex C3 
8.4 
Checking the conformity of the vehicle for On-board Diagnostics (OBD) 
8.4.1 
When the Test Agency determines that the quality of production seems 
unsatisfactory, a vehicle shall be randomly taken from the family and subjected 
to the tests described in Appendix 1 to Annex C5 
8.4.2 
The production shall be deemed to conform if this vehicle meets the 
requirements of the tests described in Appendix 1 to Annex C5. 
8.4.3 
If the vehicle tested does not satisfy the requirements of section 8.4.1., a further 
random sample of four vehicles shall be taken from the same family and 
subjected to the tests described in Appendix 1 to Annex C5. The tests may be 
carried out on vehicles which have completed a maximum of 15,000 km with 
no modifications. 
8.4.4 
The production shall be deemed to conform if at least three vehicles meet the 
requirements of the tests described in Appendix 1 to Annex C5. 
8.5 
Type II Test 
 
Carbon monoxide and Hydrocarbons emission at idling speed and Carbon 
monoxide and Lambda at high Idle Speed. When the vehicle taken from the 
series for the first Type I test mentioned in clause 8.2  of this Regulation, 
subjected to the test described in Annex C1 of this Regulation for verifying the 
carbon monoxide and hydrocarbon emission at idling speed and Carbon 
monoxide and Lambda at high Idle Speed should meet the limit values 
specified in Gazette notification. If it does not, another 10 vehicles shall be 
taken from the series at random and shall be tested as per Annex C1 of this 
Regulation. These vehicles can be same as those selected for carrying out Type 



--- PAGE 57 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 57 of 762 
 
I test. Additional vehicles if required shall be selected for carrying out for Type 
II test. At least 9 vehicles should meet the limit values specified in Gazette 
Notification. Then the series is deemed to conform. 
8.6 
Type III Test   
 
For Type III test is to be carried out, it must be conducted on all vehicles 
selected for Type I CoP test. The conditions laid down in clause 6.5 of this 
regulation must be complied with. 
8.7 
Free Acceleration Smoke Test   
 
Test is to be carried out on vehicles equipped with Compression ignition 
engines, it must be conducted on all vehicles selected for Type I COP test and 
should meet the limit values specified in Gazette Notification. Test to be carried 
out in accordance with Appendix 6 of Chapter 1 of AIS-137(Part 5). If it does 
not meet the limit values specified in Gazette Notification, then procedure shall 
be followed as per clause 6 of Chapter 5 of  AIS-137(Part 5) 
9.0 
In-Service Conformity (ISC) 
9.1 
Introduction  
 
The in-service conformity checks shall be appropriate for confirming that 
tailpipe, OBD (including IUPRM) and evaporative emissions are effectively 
limited during the normal life of vehicles under normal conditions of use for 
vehicles type approved to this regulation 
9.2 
In-service conformity 
9.2.1 
The in-service conformity checks shall be appropriate for confirming that 
tailpipe and evaporative emissions are effectively limited during the normal 
life of vehicles under normal conditions of use. 
9.2.2 
In-service conformity shall be checked on properly maintained and used 
vehicles, in accordance with Appendix 1 of Annex C7, between 15,000km or 
6 months whichever occurs later and 100,000km or 5 years whichever occurs 
sooner. In-service conformity for evaporative emissions shall be checked on 
properly maintained and used vehicles in accordance with Appendix 1 of 
Annex C7, between 30,000km or 12 months whichever occurs later and 
100,000km or 5 years whichever occurs sooner. 
 
The requirements for in-service conformity checks are applicable until 5 years 
after the last Certificate of Conformity or individual approval certificate is 
issued for vehicles of that in-service conformity family. 
9.2.3 
The manufacturer and the Test Agency shall perform in-service conformity 
checks in accordance with Annex C7. 
9.2.4 
The Test Agency shall take the decision on whether a family fails the in-service 
conformity, following a compliance assessment and approve the plan of 



--- PAGE 58 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 58 of 762 
 
remedial measures presented by the manufacturer in accordance with Annex 
C7. 
9.2.5 
If a Test Agency has established that an in-service conformity family fails the 
in-service conformity check, it shall notify without delay to Nodal Agency. 
9.3 
For IUPRM requirements refer Appendix 5 of Annex C7  of this regulation. 
9.4 
The manufacturer shall be authorized, under the supervision of the Test 
Agency, to carry out checks, even of a destructive nature, on those vehicles 
with emission levels in excess of the limit values with a view to establishing 
possible causes of deterioration which cannot be attributed to the manufacturer 
(e.g. use of leaded gasoline before the test date). Where the results of the checks 
confirm such causes, those test results shall be excluded from the conformity 
check. 
10.0 
Production Definitily Discontinued  
 
If the holder of the approval completely ceases to manufacture a type of vehicle 
approved in accordance with this Part, he shall so inform the Test Agency 
which granted the approval 
11.0 
Reserved  
12.0 
Reserved 
13.0 
Reserved 
 



--- PAGE 59 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 59 of 762 
 
APPENDIX 1 
Type I test CoP verification for Specific Vehicle Type 
1.0 
Verifying CoP on the criteria emissions for pure ICE vehicles, NOVC-HEVs and 
OVC-HEVs 
1.1 
Each vehicle shall be tested on the chassis dynamometer set with the specific 
mass inertia setting and road load parameters of the individual vehicle. The 
chassis dynamometer shall be set to the target road load for the test vehicle 
according to the procedure specified in paragraph 7. of Annex B4 
1.2 
The applicable test cycle is the same used for the type approval of the 
interpolation family to which the vehicle belongs 
1.3 
The preconditioning test shall be carried out according to the provisions of 
paragraph 2.6. of Annex B6, or of Appendix 4 to Annex B8, as applicable. 
1.4 
The test results shall be the values calculated for pure ICE vehicles according to 
Step 9 of Table A7/1 of Annex B7, for NOVC-HEVs and OVC-HEVs according 
to Step 8 of Table A8/5 of Annex B8 for the charge-sustaining criteria emissions 
and according to Step 6 of Table A8/8 of Annex B8 for the charge-depleting 
criteria emissions. Conformity against the applicable criteria emission limits 
shall be checked using the pass/fail criteria as per the Gazette Notification. 
2.0 
Verification of CoP on CO2 mass emissions of pure ICE vehicles 
2.1 
The vehicle shall be tested according to the Type I test procedure described in 
Annex B6. 
2.2 
During this test, the CO2 mass emission MCO2,c,6 shall be determined 
according to step 6 of Table A7/1 of Annex B7. 
2.3 
The conformity of production with regard to CO2 mass emissions shall be 
verified on the basis of the values for the tested vehicle as described in 
2.3.1 
CO2 mass emission values for CoP 
 
In the case the interpolation method is not applied, the CO2 mass emission value 
𝑀𝐶𝑜2,𝑐,7  according to step 7 of Table A7/1 of Annex B7 shall be used for 
verifying the conformity of production. 
 
In the case the interpolation method is applied, the CO2 mass emission value 
MCO2,c,,ind for the individual vehicle according to step 10 of Table A7/1 of Annex 
B7 shall be used for verifying the conformity of production. 
3.0 
Verification of CoP on CO2 mass emissions of NOVC-HEVs 
3.1 
The vehicle shall be tested as described in paragraph 3.3. of Annex B8. 



--- PAGE 60 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 60 of 762 
 
3.2 
During this test, the CO2 mass emission MCO2,CS,c,6 of the NOVC-HEV shall 
be determined according to step 6 of Table A8/5 of Annex B8. 
3.3 
The conformity of production with regard to CO2 mass emissions or fuel 
efficiency, as applicable, shall be verified on the basis of the values for the tested 
vehicle as described in paragraph 3.3.1. and applying a run-in factor as defined 
in paragraph 8.2.4. of this Regulation. 
3.3.1 
CO2 mass emission values for CoP values for CoP 
 
In the case the interpolation method is not applied, the charge-sustaining CO2 
mass emission value MCO2,CS,c,7 according to step 7 of Table A8/5 of Annex B8 
shall be used for verifying the conformity of production. 
 
In the case the interpolation method is applied, the charge-sustaining CO2 mass 
emission value MCO2,CS,c,ind for the individual vehicle according to step 9 of Table 
A8/5 of Annex B8 shall be used for verifying the conformity of production. 
4.0 
Verification of CoP on electric energy consumption of PEVs (if applicable) 
4.1 
The vehicle shall be tested as described in paragraph 3.4. of Annex B8. During 
the conformity of production verification, the break-off criterion for the Type I 
test procedure according to paragraph 3.4.4.1.3. of Annex B8 (consecutive cycle 
procedure) and paragraph 3.4.4.2.3. of Annex B8 (Shortened Test Procedure) 
shall be considered reached when having finished the first applicable WLTP test 
cycle. 
 
During this test cycle, the DC electric energy consumption from the REESS(s) 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝑓𝑖𝑟𝑠𝑡,𝑖 shall be determined according to paragraph 4.3 of Annex B8 where 
∆EREESS,j shall be the electric energy change of all REESS and dj shall be the 
actual driven distance during this test cycle 
4.2 
The conformity of production with regard to electric energy consumption (EC) 
shall be verified on the basis of the values for the tested vehicle as described in 
paragraph 4.2.1. in the case that the type approval was conducted with the 
consecutive cycle Type I test procedure and in paragraph 4.2.2. in case that the 
type approval was conducted using the shortened Type I test procedure. 
4.2.1 
Consecutive cycle Type I test procedure values for CoP 
 
In the case the interpolation method is not applied, the electric energy 
consumption value 𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝑂𝑃,𝑓𝑖𝑛𝑎𝑙 according to step 9 of Table A8/10 of 
Annex B8 shall be used for verifying the conformity of production. 
 
In the case that the interpolation method is applied, the electric energy 
consumption value 𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝑂𝑃,𝑖𝑛𝑑 for the individual vehicle according to step 10 
of Table A8/10 of Annex B8 shall be used for verifying the conformity of 
production. 
4.2.2 
Shortened Type I Test Procedure values for CoP 



--- PAGE 61 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 61 of 762 
 
In the case the interpolation method is not applied, the electric energy 
consumption value 𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝑂𝑃,𝑓𝑖𝑛𝑎𝑙 according to step 8 of Table A8/11 of Annex 
B8 shall be used for verifying the conformity of production. 
In the case the interpolation method is applied, the electric energy consumption 
value EC_(DC,COP,ind) for the individual vehicle according to step 9 of Table 
A8/11 of Annex B8 shall be used for verifying the conformity of production. 
5.0 
Verification of CoP on CO2 mass emissions of OVC-HEVs 
5.1 
At the request of the manufacturer it is allowed to use different test vehicles for 
the charge-sustaining test and charge-depleting test. 
5.2 
Verification of the charge-sustaining CO2 mass emissions / fuel efficiency, as 
applicable, for conformity of production. 
5.2.1 
The vehicle shall be tested according to the charge-sustaining Type I test as 
described in paragraph 3.2.5. of Annex B8. 
5.2.2 
During this test, the charge-sustaining CO2 mass emission after 4 phases 
MCO2,CS,c,6 shall be determined according to step 6 of Table A8/5 of Annex B8. 
5.2.3 
The conformity of production with regard to charge-sustaining CO2 mass 
emissions shall be verified on the basis of the values for the tested vehicle as 
described in paragraph 5.2.3.1. for charge-sustaining CO2 mass emissions, and 
applying a run-in factor as defined in paragraph 8.2.4. of this Regulation. 
5.2.3.1 
Charge-Sustaining CO2 mass emission / fuel efficiency values for CoP 
 
In the case the interpolation method is not applied, the charge-sustaining CO2 
mass emission value MCO2,CS,c,7 according to step 7 of Table A8/5 of Annex B8 
shall be used for verifying the conformity of production. 
 
In the case the interpolation method is applied, the charge-sustaining CO2 mass 
emission value MCO2,CS,c,ind for the individual vehicle according to step 9 of 
Table A8/5 of Annex B8 shall be used for verifying the conformity of production. 
5.3 
Verification of CoP on charge-depleting electric energy consumption of OVC-
HEVs (if applicable) 
5.3.1 
The vehicle shall be tested during conformity of production according to 
paragraph 5.3.1.1. If there is no engine start during the first cycle of the type 
approval procedure of this vehicle, at the option of the manufacturer the vehicle 
may be tested according to paragraph 5.3.1.2. 
5.3.1.1 
Charge-Depleting Type I test procedure 
 
The vehicle shall be tested according to the charge-depleting Type I test 
procedure as described in paragraph 3.2.4. of Annex B8. During this test, the 



--- PAGE 62 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 62 of 762 
 
electric energy consumption ECAC,CD shall be determined according to step 9 of 
Table A8/8 of Annex B8. 
 
If deemed necessary, the manufacturer shall demonstrate that preconditioning of 
the traction REESS in advance of the CoP procedure is required. In such a case, 
at the request of the manufacturer and with approval of the Test Agency, 
preconditioning of the traction REESS shall be done in advance of the CoP 
procedure according to manufacturer’s recommendation. 
5.3.1.2 
First cycle of the Charge-Depleting Type I Test 
5.3.1.2.1 The vehicle shall be tested according to the charge-depleting Type I test as 
described in paragraph 3.2.4. of Annex B8 while the break-off criterion of the 
charge-depleting Type I test procedure shall be considered reached when having 
finished the first applicable WLTP test cycle and replace the break-off criterion 
of the charge-depleting Type I test procedure according to paragraph 3.2.4.4. of 
Annex B8. 
 
During this test cycle, the DC electric energy consumption from the REESS(s) 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝑓𝑖𝑟𝑠𝑡,𝑖 shall be determined according to paragraph 4.3. of Annex B8 where 
∆EREESS,j shall be the electric energy change of all REESS and dj shall be the 
actual driven distance during this test cycle. 
5.3.1.2.2 In this cycle, there is no engine operation allowed. If there is engine operation, 
the test during conformity of production shall be considered as void 
5.3.2 
The conformity of production with regard to the charge-depleting electric energy 
consumption shall be verified on the basis of the values for the tested vehicle as 
described in paragraph 5.3.2.1. in the case that the vehicle is tested according to 
paragraph 5.3.1.1. and as described in paragraph 5.3.2.2. in the case that the 
vehicle is tested according to paragraph 5.3.1.2. 
5.3.2.1 
Conformity of production for a test according to paragraph 5.3.1.1. 
 
In the case that the interpolation method is not applied, the charge-depleting 
electric energy consumption value ECAC,CD,final according to step 16 of 
Table A8/8 of Annex B8 shall be used for verifying the conformity of 
production. 
 
In the case the interpolation method is applied, the charge-depleting electric 
energy consumption value ECAC,CD,ind for the individual vehicle according to step 
17 of Table A8/8 of Annex B8 shall be used for verifying the conformity of 
production. 
5.3.2.2 
Conformity of production for a test according to paragraph 5.3.1.2. 
 
In the case the interpolation method is not applied, the charge-depleting electric 
energy consumption value 𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝐷,𝐶𝑂𝑃,𝑓𝑖𝑛𝑎𝑙 according to step 16 of Table A8/8 
of Annex B8 shall be used for verifying the conformity of production. 



--- PAGE 63 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 63 of 762 
 
 
In the case the interpolation method is applied, the charge-depleting electric 
energy consumption value 𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝐷,𝐶𝑂𝑃,𝑖𝑛𝑑 for the individual vehicle according 
to step 17 of Table A8/8 of Annex B8 shall be used for verifying the conformity 
of production. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 64 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 64 of 762 
 
APPENDIX 2 
Verification of Conformtiy of Production fro Type I Test 
APPENDIX 2a 
Verification of Conformity of Production for Type I Test – Statistical Method 
1.0 
This Appendix describes the procedure to be used to verify the production 
conformity requirements for the Type I test for criteria emissions, CO2 emissions, 
electric energy consumption ( if applicable) for pure ICE, NOVC-HEV, PEV and 
OVC-HEV 
 
Measurements of the criteria emissions, CO2 emissions, and electric energy 
consumption, ( if applicable) can be carried out on a minimum number of 3 
vehicles, and consecutively increase until a pass or fail decision is reached. 
2.0 
Criteria emissions 
2.1 
Statistical procedure and pass/fail criteria 
2.1.1 
For the total number of N tests and the measurement results of the tested vehicles, 
x1, x2, … xN, the average Xtests and the variance VAR shall be determined: 
𝑋𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡𝑠= (𝑥1 + 𝑥2 + 𝑥3 + ⋯+ 𝑥𝑁)
𝑁
 
And  
𝑉𝐴𝑅=
(𝑥1 −𝑋𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡𝑠)2 + (𝑥2 −𝑋𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡𝑠)2 + ⋯+ (𝑥𝑁−𝑋𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡𝑠)2
𝑁−1
 
For OVC-HEV, in case of complete charge-depleting Type I test, the average 
emissions over the complete test of an individual vehicle shall be considered as a 
single value xi. 
For each number of tests, one of the three following decisions can be reached for 
criteria emissions, based on the criteria emission limit value L 
(i) 
Pass the family if 𝑋𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡𝑠< 𝐴∙𝐿 −
𝑉𝐴𝑅
𝐿 
(ii) 
Fail the family if 𝑋𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡𝑠> 𝐴∙𝐿 −(
𝑁−3
13 ∙
𝑉𝐴𝑅
𝐿) 
(iii) 
Take another measurement if: 
 
𝐴∙𝐿 −
𝑉𝐴𝑅
𝐿 ≤ 𝑋𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡𝑠≤ 𝐴∙𝐿 −(
𝑁−3
13 ∙
𝑉𝐴𝑅
𝐿) 
 
For the measurement of criteria emissions the factor A is set at 1.05. 



--- PAGE 65 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 65 of 762 
 
3.0 
CO2 emissions, and electric energy consumption (if applicable) 
3.1 
Statistical procedure 
3.1.1 
For the total number of N tests and the measurement results of the tested vehicles, 
x1, x2, … xN, the average Xtests and the standard deviation s shall be determined: 
𝑋𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡𝑠= (𝑥1 + 𝑥2 + 𝑥3 + ⋯+ 𝑥𝑁)
𝑁
 
And 
𝑠= √(𝑥1 −𝑋𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡𝑠)2 + (𝑥2 −𝑋𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡𝑠)2+. . . +(𝑥𝑁−𝑋𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡𝑠)2
𝑁−1
 
3.2 
Statistical evaluation 
3.2.1 
For the evaluation of CO2 emissions the normalised values shall be calculated as 
follows: 
𝑥𝑖= 
𝐶𝑂2 𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡−𝑖
𝐶𝑂2 𝑑𝑒𝑐𝑙𝑎𝑟𝑒𝑑−𝑖
 
where: 
CO2 test-i  
is the CO2 emission measured for individual vehicle i 
CO2 declared-i is the declared CO2 value for the individual vehicle 
For the evaluation of electric energy consumption EC the normalised values shall 
be calculated as follows: 
𝑥𝑖= 𝐸𝐶𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡−𝑖
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝑂𝑃−𝑖
 
where: 
ECtest-i is the electric energy consumption measured for individual vehicle i. In 
the case that the complete charge-depleting Type I test has been applied, 
ECtest-i shall be determined according to paragraph 5.3.1.1. of Appendix 1. 
In the case that only the first cycle is tested for verification of CoP, ECtest-
i shall be determined according to paragraph 5.3.1.2. of Appendix 1. 
ECDC, 
COP-i 
is the declared electric energy consumption for the individual vehicle i, 
according to Appendix 8 to Annex B8. In the case that the complete 
charge-depleting Type I test has been applied, ECDC,COP,i shall be 
determined according to paragraph 5.3.2.1. of Appendix 1. In the case that 
only the first cycle is tested for verification of CoP, ECCOP,i shall be 
determined according to paragraph 5.3.2.2 of Appendix 1. 



--- PAGE 66 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 66 of 762 
 
 
The normalised xi values shall be used to determine the parameters Xtests and s 
according to paragraph 3.1. 
3.3 
Pass/fail criteria 
3.3.1 
Evaluation of  CO2 emissions and electric energy consumption (if applicable) 
 
For each number of tests, one of the three following decisions can be reached, 
where the factor A shall be set at 1.01: 
 
(i) 
 Pass the family if 𝑋𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡𝑠≤𝐴−(𝑡𝑃1,𝑖+ 𝑡𝑃2,𝑖) ∙𝑠 
(ii) 
 Fail the family if 𝑋𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡𝑠> 𝐴+ (𝑡𝐹1,𝑖−𝑡𝐹2) ∙𝑠 
(iii)  Take another measurement if: 
 
𝐴−(𝑡𝑃1,𝑖+ 𝑡𝑃2,𝑖) ∙𝑠< 𝑋𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡𝑠≤𝐴+ (𝑡𝐹1,𝑖−𝑡𝐹2) ∙𝑠  
where: 
parameters tP1,i, tP2,i, tF1,i, and tF2 are taken from the Table A2/3. 
 
Table A2/3 
Pass/fail decision number for the sample size. 
 
 
PASS 
FAIL 
Tests (i) 
tP1,i 
tP2,i 
tF1,i 
tF2 
3 
1.686 
0.438 
1.686 
0.438 
4 
1.125 
0.425 
1.177 
0.438 
5 
0.850 
0.401 
0.953 
0.438 
6 
0.673 
0.370 
0.823 
0.438 
7 
0.544 
0.335 
0.734 
0.438 
8 
0.443 
0.299 
0.670 
0.438 
9 
0.361 
0.263 
0.620 
0.438 
10 
0.292 
0.226 
0.580 
0.438 
11 
0.232 
0.190 
0.546 
0.438 
12 
0.178 
0.153 
0.518 
0.438 
13 
0.129 
0.116 
0.494 
0.438 
14 
0.083 
0.078 
0.473 
0.438 
15 
0.040 
0.038 
0.455 
0.438 
16 
0.000 
0.000 
0.438 
0.438 



--- PAGE 67 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
 
Page 67 of 762 
 
 
APPENDIX 2b 
Verification of Conformity of Production for Type I Test- for Low Volume Vehicles 
1.0 
This Appendix describes the procedure to be used to verify the production 
conformity requirements of vehicle model and its variants produced less than 250 
in the half yearly period as mentioned in clause 3.1.1 of  AIS-137 (Part 6),  for the 
Type I test criteria emissions, CO2 emissions, electric energy consumption ( if 
applicable) for pure ICE, NOVC-HEV, PEV and OVC-HE 
2.0 
To verify the average tailpipe emissions of gaseous pollutants following procedure 
shall be adopted: 
2.1 
Minimum of three vehicles shall be selected randomly from the series with a 
sample lot size as described in AIS-137 (Part 6).   
2.2 
Vehicles shall be selected at random. The manufacturer shall not undertake any  
adjustment to the vehicles selected except those permitted in AIS 137 Part 6. 
2.3 
First vehicle out of three randomly selected vehicles shall be tested for Type I test 
as per Annex B6 of this Regulation. 
2.3.1 
The number of tests shall be determined according to the flowchart in Figure A6/1 
of Annex B6 of this Regulation. The limit value is the maximum allowed value for 
the respective criteria emission as per the Gazette Notification 
2.3.2 
Series passes with only one test, if after the first test all criteria in row 1 of the 
applicable Table A6/2 of Annex B6 of this Regulation are fulfilled. 
2.3.3 
Series passes with two tests on the same vehicle if, after the second test, calculated 
arithmetic average results of the two tests meets all criteria in row 2 of the 
applicable Table A6/2 of Annex B6 of this Regulation. 
 
If any one of the criteria in row 2 of the applicable Table A6/2 of Annex B6 of this 
Regulation is not fulfilled, a third test shall be performed with the same vehicle. 
2.3.4 
Series passes with three tests on the same vehicle if, after the third test, calculated 
arithmetic average results of the three tests meets all criteria in row 3 of the 
applicable  Table A6/2 of Annex B6 of this Regulation 
2.4 
If any one of the criteria in row 3 of the applicable Table A6/2 of Annex B6 of  this 
Regulation is not fulfilled, then randomly selected sample No. 2 and 3 shall be  
tested for only one Type-I test as per Annex B6 of this Regulation. 
2.4.1 
Let x2 & x3 are the test results for the Sample No.2 and 3 and x1 is the test result of 
the Sample No.1 which is the arithmetical mean for the three Type - I test 
conducted on Sample No. 1 
 
Statistical method as described in Appexdix 2a shall be applied on the results x1, 
x2 & x3, for evaluation of Pass/Fail criteria and consecutively sample size is 
increased until a pass or fail decision is reached 
 
 



--- PAGE 68 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 68 of 762 
 
APPENDIX 3 
Run –in test procedure to determine run-in factors 
1.0 
Description of test procedure for the determination of the run-in factors 
1.1 
The run-in test procedure shall be conducted by the manufacturer, who shall not 
make any adjustments to the test vehicles that have an impact on the criteria 
emissions, CO2 emissions, and electric energy consumption. The hardware and 
relevant ECU calibration of the test vehicle shall conform to the type approval 
vehicle. All the relevant hardware that has an impact on the criteria emissions, 
CO2 emissions, and electric energy consumption (if applicable) shall have had no 
operation prior to the run-in test procedure. 
1.2 
Reserved  
1.2.1 
Reserved  
1.3 
The test vehicle shall be a new vehicle, or a used test vehicle for which at least all 
of the following components are newly installed simultaneously: 
 
(a) 
Internal combustion engine; 
(b) 
Driveline components (at least, but not limited to, transmission, tyre, axles, 
etc.); 
(c) 
Brake components; 
(d) 
REESSs for EVs 
(e) 
exhaust system. 
and any other component that has a non-negligible influence on criteria emissions, 
CO2 emissions and electric energy consumption (if applicable). 
For the new vehicle, or the used vehicle for which the above mentioned 
components have been replaced, the system odometer of the test vehicle Ds in km 
shall recorded. 
1.4 
At the request of the manufacturer and with approval by the Test Agency, it is 
allowed to perform the run-in procedure on multiple test vehicles. In this case, the 
valid test results of all tested vehicles shall be considered for the determination of 
the run-in factors. 
1.5 
Chassis dynamometer setting 
1.5.1 
The chassis dynamometer shall be set to the target road load for the test vehicle, 
according to the procedure specified in paragraph 7. of Annex B4. 
 
The chassis dynamometer shall be set independently prior to each test before the 
run-in mileage accumulation and shall be set once for the post-run-in tests after 
the run-in mileage accumulation. 



--- PAGE 69 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 69 of 762 
 
1.6 
Before the run-in, the test vehicle shall be tested according to the Type I test 
procedure specified in Annex B6 and Annex B8. The test shall be repeated until 
three valid test results have been obtained. Drive trace indexes shall be calculated 
according to paragraph 7. of Annex B7 and these shall fulfil the specified criteria 
in paragraph 2.6.8.3.1.4. of Annex B6. The system odometer setting Di shall be 
recorded prior to each test. The measured criteria emissions, CO2 emissions, fuel 
efficiency and electric energy consumption shall be calculated according to 
Step 4a of Table A7/1 in Annex B7 or Step 4a of Table A8/5 in Annex B8. 
1.7 
After the initial tests, the test vehicle shall be run-in under normal driving 
conditions. OVC-HEVs shall be driven predominantly in charge-sustaining 
operating conditions. The driving pattern, test conditions and fuel during the run-
in shall be in accordance with the manufacturer’s engineering judgement. The 
run-in distance shall be less than or equivalent to the distance driven during the 
run-in of the vehicle which was tested for the type approval of the interpolation 
family, in accordance with paragraph 2.3.3. of Annex B6 or paragraph 2. of Annex 
B8. 
1.8 
After the run-in, the test vehicle shall be tested according to the Type I test 
procedure specified in Annex B6 and Annex B8. The test shall be repeated until 
three valid test results have been obtained. 
Drive trace indexes shall be calculated according to paragraph 7. of Annex B7 and 
these shall fulfil the specified criteria in paragraph 2.6.8.3.1.4. of Annex B6. 
These tests shall be performed in the same test cell as used for the tests prior to 
the run-in and by applying the same chassis dynamometer setting method. If this 
is not possible, the manufacturer shall justify the reason for using a different test 
cell. The system odometer setting Di in km shall be recorded prior to each test. 
The measured criteria emissions, CO2 emissions, and electric energy 
consumption (if applicable) , as applicable and in accordance with paragraph 
8.2.4.1. of this Regulation, shall be calculated according to Step 4a of Table A7/1 
in Annex B7 or Step 4a of Table A8/5 in Annex B8. 
1.9 
For the determination of the run-in factor for CO2 emissions the coefficients CRI 
and Cconst in the following equation shall be calculated by a least squares 
regression analysis to four significant digits on all valid tests before and after the 
run-in: 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝑖= − 𝐶𝑅𝐼∙𝑙𝑛(𝐷𝑖−𝐷𝑠) + 𝐶𝑐𝑜𝑛𝑠𝑡 
Where  
MCO2,i is the measured CO2 mass emission for test i, g/km 
CRI is the slope of the logarithmic regression line 
Cconst is the constant value of the logarithmic regression line 
In the case that multiple vehicles have been tested, the CRI shall be calculated for 
each vehicle, and the resulting values shall be averaged. The manufacturer will 



--- PAGE 70 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 70 of 762 
 
provide statistical evidence to the Test Agency that the fit is sufficiently 
statistically justified. 
1.9.1 
Based on the deviation of the measurements from the fit, the slope CRI should be 
corrected downward with the standard deviation of the errors in the fit: 
 
where:  𝜎𝑓𝑖𝑡=  √∑(𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝑖−𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝑖−𝑓𝑖𝑡)
2
𝑁−2
 
MCO2,i-fit is the result of the applying the equation for each of the distances Di.  
The slope CRI shall be corrected for the uncertainty in the fit by: 
CRI → CRI - fit 
1.10 
The run-in factor RICO2(j) for CO2 emissions of CoP test vehicle j shall be 
determined by the following equation 
𝑅𝐼𝐶𝑂2(𝑗) = 1 −𝐶𝑅𝐼 . ( 𝑙𝑛(𝐷𝑘) −𝑙𝑛(𝐷𝑗)
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝑗
) 
Where:  
Dk is the average distance of the valid tests after the run-in, km 
Dj is the system odometer setting of the CoP test vehicle, km 
MCO2,j is the mass CO2 emission measured on the CoP test vehicle, g/km 
In the case that Dj is lower than the minimum Di, Dj shall be replaced by the 
minimum Di. 
1.11 
For the determination of the run-in factor for all applicable criteria emissions, the 
coefficients CRI,c and Cconst, c shall be calculated with a least squares regression 
analysis to four significant digits on all valid tests before and after the run-in: 
𝑀𝐶,𝑖= 𝐶𝑅𝐼,𝑐. (𝐷𝑖−𝐷𝑠) + 𝐶𝑐𝑜𝑛𝑠𝑡,𝑐 
Where;  
MC,I is the measured mass criteria emission component C 
CRI,c is the slope of the linear regression line, g/km2 
Cconst,c is the constant value of the linear regression line, g/km 
The manufacturer will provide statistical evidence to the Test Agency that the fit 
is sufficiently statistically justified and the uncertainty margin based on the 
variation in the data should be taken into account to avoid an overestimation of 
the run-in effect. 



--- PAGE 71 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 71 of 762 
 
1.12 
The run-in factor RIC(j) for criteria emission component C of CoP test vehicle j 
shall be determined by the following equation: 
𝑅𝐼𝐶(𝑗) = 1 + 𝐶𝑅𝐼,𝑐 . ( 𝐷𝑘 − 𝐷𝑗
 𝑀𝐶,𝑗
) 
Where;  
Dk is the average distance of the valid tests after the run-in, km 
Dj is the system odometer setting of the CoP test vehicle, km 
MC,j is the mass emission of component C on the CoP test vehicle, g/km 
In the case that Dj is lower than the minimum Di, Dj shall be replaced by the 
minimum Di. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 72 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 72 of 762 
 
APPENDIX 4 
Conformity of Production for Type IV Test 
1.0 
For routine end-of-production-line testing, the holder of the approval may 
demonstrate compliance by sampling vehicles which shall meet the requirements 
in paragraphs 2. to 4. of this appendix. 
1.1 
In case of vehicles with a sealed fuel tank system, at the request of the 
manufacturer and in agreement with the Test Agency, alternative procedures to 
paragraphs 2. to 4. of this appendix can be applied. 
1.2 
When the manufacturer chooses to use any alternative procedure, all the details 
of the conformity test procedure shall be recorded in the type approval 
documentation. 
2.0 
Test for leakage 
2.1 
Vents to the atmosphere from the emission control system shall be isolated. 
2.2 
A pressure of 3.70 kPa  0.10 kPa shall be applied to the fuel system. At the 
request of manufacturer and with approval of the Test Agency, an alternative 
pressure can also be applied, taking into account the pressure range in use of the 
fuel system. 
2.3 
The pressure shall be allowed to stabilise prior to isolating the fuel system from 
the pressure source. 
2.4 
Following isolation of the fuel system, the pressure shall not drop by more 
than 0.50 kPa in five minutes. 
2.5 
At the request of the manufacturer and in agreement with the Test Agency the 
function for leakage can be demonstrated by an equivalent alternative procedure. 
3.0 
Test for venting 
3.1 
Vents to the atmosphere from the emission control shall be isolated. 
3.2 
A pressure of 3.70 kPa  0.10 kPa shall be applied to the fuel system. At the 
request of manufacturer and with approval of the Test Agency, an alternative 
pressure can also be applied, taking into account the pressure range in use of the 
fuel system. 
3.3 
The pressure shall be allowed to stabilise prior to isolating the fuel system from 
the pressure source. 
3.4 
The venting outlets from the emission control systems to the atmosphere shall be 
reinstated to the production condition. 
3.5 
The pressure of the fuel system shall drop to below a pressure less than 2.5 kPa 
above ambient pressure within one minute. 



--- PAGE 73 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 73 of 762 
 
3.6 
At the request of the manufacturer and in agreement with the Test Agency the 
functional capacity for venting can be demonstrated, when applicable, by an 
equivalent alternative procedure. 
4.0 
Purge test 
4.1 
Equipment capable of detecting an airflow rate of 1.0 litres in one minute shall be 
attached to the purge inlet and a pressure vessel of sufficient size to have 
negligible effect on the purge system shall be connected via a switching valve to 
the purge inlet, or alternatively. 
4.2 
The manufacturer may use a flow meter of his own choosing, if acceptable to the 
Test Agency. 
4.3 
The vehicle shall be operated in such a manner that any design feature of the purge 
system that could restrict purge operation is detected and the circumstances noted 
4.4 
Whilst the engine is operating within the bounds noted in paragraph 4.3. of this 
appendix, the air flow shall be determined by either: 
4.4.1 
The device indicated in paragraph 4.1. of this appendix being switched in. A 
pressure drop from atmospheric to a level indicating that a volume of 1.0 litre of 
air has flowed into the evaporative emission control system within one minute 
shall be observed; or 
4.4.2 
If an alternative flow measuring device is used, a reading of no less than 1.0 litre 
per minute shall be detectable. 
4.4.3 
At the request of the manufacturer and in agreement with the Test Agency an 
equivalent alternative purge test procedure can be used. 
 
 



--- PAGE 74 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 74 of 762 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX 5 
(RESERVED) 



--- PAGE 75 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 75 of 762 
 
APPENDIX 6 
Requirements for Vehicles that use a reagent for the Exhaust  
after- treatement System 
1.0 
This appendix sets out the requirements for vehicles that rely on the use of a 
reagent for the after-treatment system in order to reduce emissions. Every 
reference in this appendix to 'reagent tank' shall be understood as also applying 
to other containers in which a reagent is stored. 
1.1 
The capacity of the reagent tank shall be such that a full reagent tank does not 
need to be replenished over an average driving range of 5 full fuel tanks 
providing the reagent tank can be easily replenished (e.g. without the use of 
tools and without removing vehicle interior trim. The opening of an interior flap, 
in order to gain access for the purpose of reagent replenishment, shall not be 
understood as the removal of interior trim). If the reagent tank is not considered 
to be easy to replenish as described above, the minimum reagent tank capacity 
shall be at least equivalent to an average driving distance of 15 full fuel tanks. 
However, in the case of the option in paragraph 3.5., where the manufacturer 
chooses to start the warning system at a distance which may not be less than 
2,400 km before the reagent tank becomes empty, the above restrictions on a 
minimum reagent tank capacity shall not apply. 
1.2 
In the context of this appendix, the term "average driving distance" shall be 
taken to be derived from the fuel or reagent consumption during a Type I test 
for the driving distance of a fuel tank and the driving distance of a reagent tank 
respectively. 
2.0 
Reagent indication 
2.1 
The vehicle shall include a specific indicator on the dashboard that informs the 
driver when reagent levels are below the threshold values specified in paragraph 
3.5. 
3.0 
Driver warning system 
3.1 
The vehicle shall include a warning system consisting of visual alarms that 
informs the driver when an abnormality is detected in the reagent dosing, e.g. 
when emissions are too high, the reagent level is low, reagent dosing is 
interrupted, or the reagent is not of a quality specified by the manufacturer. The 
warning system may also include an audible component to alert the driver. 
3.2 
The warning system shall escalate in intensity as the reagent approaches empty. 
It shall culminate in a driver notification that cannot be easily defeated or 
ignored. It shall not be possible to turn off the system until the reagent has been 
replenished. 
3.3 
The visual warning shall display a message indicating a low level of reagent. 
The warning shall not be the same as the warning used for the purposes of OBD 
or other engine maintenance. The warning shall be sufficiently clear for the 



--- PAGE 76 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 76 of 762 
 
driver to understand that the reagent level is low (e.g. "urea level low", "AdBlue 
level low", or "reagent low"). 
3.4 
The warning system does not initially need to be continuously activated, 
however the warning shall escalate so that it becomes continuous as the level of 
the reagent approaches the point where the driver inducement system in 
paragraph 8. comes into effect. An explicit warning shall be displayed (e.g. "fill 
up urea"', "fill up AdBlue", or "fill up reagent"). The continuous warning system 
may be temporarily interrupted by other warning signals providing that they are 
important safety related messages. 
3.5 
The warning system shall activate at a distance equivalent to a driving range of 
at least 2,400 km in advance of the reagent tank becoming empty, or at the 
choice of the manufacturer at the latest when the level of reagent in the tank 
reaches one of the following levels: 
(a) 
A level expected to be sufficient for driving 150 per cent of an average 
driving range with a complete tank of fuel; or 
(b) 
10 per cent of the capacity of the reagent tank, 
whichever occurs earlier 
4.0 
Identification of incorrect reagent 
4.1 
The vehicle shall include a means of determining that a reagent corresponding 
to the characteristics declared by the manufacturer and recorded in Annex A1 is 
present on the vehicle. 
4.2 
If the reagent in the storage tank does not correspond to the minimum 
requirements declared by the manufacturer the driver warning system in 
paragraph 3. shall be activated and shall display a message indicating an 
appropriate warning (e.g. "incorrect urea detected", "incorrect AdBlue 
detected", or "incorrect reagent detected"). If the reagent quality is not rectified 
within 50 km of the activation of the warning system then the driver inducement 
requirements of paragraph 8. shall apply. 
5.0 
Reagent consumption monitoring 
5.1 
The vehicle shall include a means of determining reagent consumption and 
providing off-board access to consumption information. 
5.2 
Average reagent consumption and average demanded reagent consumption by 
the engine system shall be available via the serial port of the standard diagnostic 
connector. Data shall be available over the previous complete 2,400 km period 
of vehicle operation. 
5.3 
In order to monitor reagent consumption, at least the following parameters 
within the vehicle shall be monitored: 
 
(a) 
The level of reagent in the on-vehicle storage tank; and 



--- PAGE 77 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 77 of 762 
 
 
(b) 
The flow of reagent or injection of reagent as close as technically possible 
to the point of injection into an exhaust after-treatment system 
5.4 
A deviation of more than 50 per cent between the average reagent consumption 
and the average demanded reagent consumption by the engine system over a 
period of 30 minutes of vehicle operation, shall result in the activation of the 
driver warning system in paragraph 3., which shall display a message indicating 
an appropriate warning (e.g. "urea dosing malfunction", "AdBlue dosing 
malfunction", or "reagent dosing malfunction"). If the reagent consumption is 
not rectified within 50 km of the activation of the warning system, then the 
driver inducement requirements of paragraph 8. shall apply. 
5.5 
In the case of interruption in reagent dosing activity the driver warning system 
as referred to in paragraph 3. shall be activated, which shall display a message 
indicating an appropriate warning. Where the reagent dosing interruption is 
initiated by the engine system because the vehicle operating conditions are such 
that the vehicle's emission performance does not require reagent dosing, the 
activation of the driver warning system as referred to in paragraph 3. may be 
omitted, provided that the manufacturer has clearly informed the Test Agency 
when such operating conditions apply. If the reagent dosing is not rectified 
within 50 km of the activation of the warning system, then the driver 
inducement requirements of paragraph 8. shall apply. 
6.0 
Monitoring NOx emissions 
6.1 
As an alternative to the monitoring requirements referred to in paragraphs 4. 
and 5., manufacturers may use exhaust gas sensors directly to sense excess NOx 
levels in the exhaust. 
6.2 
The manufacturer shall demonstrate that use of the sensors referred to in 
paragraph 6.1. and any other sensors on the vehicle, results in the activation of 
the driver warning system as referred to in paragraph 3., the display of a 
message indicating an appropriate warning (e.g. “emissions too high — check 
urea”, “emissions too high — check AdBlue”, “emissions too high — check 
reagent”), and the activation of the driver inducement system as referred to in 
paragraph 8.3., when the situations referred to in paragraphs 4.2., 5.4., or 5.5. 
occur 
For the purposes of this paragraph these situations are presumed to occur if the 
applicable NOx OBD threshold limit set out in Table 4 of paragraph 6.8.2. is 
exceeded. 
NOx emissions during the test to demonstrate compliance with these 
requirements shall be no more than 20 per cent higher than the OBD threshold 
limits. 
7.0 
Storage of failure information 
7.1 
Where reference is made to this paragraph, non-erasable Parameter Identifiers 
(PID) shall be stored identifying the reason for and the distance travelled by the 
vehicle during the inducement system activation. The vehicle shall retain a 
record of the PID for at least 800 days or 30,000 km of vehicle operation. The 



--- PAGE 78 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 78 of 762 
 
PID shall be made available via the serial port of a standard diagnostic connector 
upon request of a generic scan tool in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 6.5.3.1. of Appendix 1 to Annex C5. The information stored in the 
PID shall be linked to the period of cumulated vehicle operation, during which 
it has occurred, with an accuracy of not less than 300 days or 10,000 km. 
7.2 
Malfunctions in the reagent dosing system attributed to technical failures (e.g. 
mechanical or electrical faults) shall also be subject to the OBD requirements in 
paragraph 6.8. of this Regulation and Annex C5 
8.0 
Driver inducement system 
8.1 
The vehicle shall include a driver inducement system to ensure that the vehicle 
operates with a functioning emission control system at all times. The 
inducement system shall be designed so as to ensure that the vehicle cannot 
operate with an empty reagent tank. 
8.1.1 
The requirement for a driver inducement system shall not apply to vehicles 
designed and constructed for use by the rescue services, armed services, civil 
defence, fire services and forces responsible for maintaining public order. 
Permanent deactivation of the driver inducement system for these vehicles shall 
only be done by the vehicle manufacturer. 
8.2 
The inducement system shall activate at the latest when the level of reagent in 
the tank reaches: 
 
(a) 
 In the case that the warning system was activated at least 2,400 km 
before the reagent tank was expected to become empty, a level expected 
to be sufficient for driving the average driving range of the vehicle with 
a complete tank of fuel. 
(b) 
 In the case that the warning system was activated at the level described 
in paragraph 3.5.(a), a level expected to be sufficient for driving 
75 per cent of the average driving range of the vehicle with a complete 
tank of fuel; or 
(c) 
 In the case that the warning system was activated at the level described 
in paragraph 3.5.(b), 5 per cent of the capacity of the reagent tank. 
(d) 
 In the case that the warning system was activated ahead of the levels 
described in both paragraph 3.5.(a) and 3.5.(b) but less than 2,400 km 
in advance of the reagent tank becoming empty, whichever level 
described in (b) or (c) of this paragraph occurs earlier. 
 
Where the alternative described in paragraph 6.1. is utilised, the system shall 
activate when the irregularities described in paragraphs 4. or 5. or the NOx 
levels described in paragraph 6.2. have occurred. 
 
The detection of an empty reagent tank and the irregularities mentioned in 
paragraphs 4., 5., or 6. shall result in the failure information storage 
requirements of paragraph 7. taking effect. 



--- PAGE 79 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 79 of 762 
 
8.3 
The manufacturer shall select which type of inducement system to install. The 
options for a system are described in paragraphs 8.3.1., 8.3.2. and 8.3.3. 
8.3.1 
A "no engine restart after countdown" approach allows a countdown of restarts 
or distance remaining once the inducement system activates. Engine starts 
initiated by the vehicle control system, such as start-stop systems, are not 
included in this countdown. 
8.2.1.1 
In the case that the warning system was activated at least 2,400 km before the 
reagent tank was expected to become empty, or the irregularities described in 
paragraphs 4. or 5. or the NOx levels described in paragraph 6.2. have occurred, 
engine restarts shall be prevented immediately after the vehicle has travelled a 
distance expected to be sufficient for driving the average driving range of the 
vehicle with a complete tank of fuel since the activation of the inducement 
system. 
8.3.1.2 
In the case that the inducement system was activated at the level described in 
paragraph 8.2.(b), engine restarts shall be prevented immediately after the 
vehicle has travelled a distance expected to be sufficient for driving 75 per cent 
of the average driving range of the vehicle with a complete tank of fuel since 
the activation of the inducement system. 
8.3.1.3 
In the case that the inducement system was activated at the level described in 
paragraph 8.2.(c), engine restarts shall be prevented immediately after the 
vehicle has travelled a distance expected to be sufficient for driving the average 
driving range of the vehicle with 5 per cent of the capacity of the reagent tank, 
since the activation of the inducement system. 
8.3.1.4 
In addition, engine restarts shall be prevented immediately after the reagent tank 
becomes empty, should this situation occur earlier than the situations specified 
in paragraphs 8.3.1.1, 8.3.1.2., or 8.3.1.3. 
8.3.2 
A "no start after refuelling" system results in a vehicle being unable to start after 
re-fuelling if the inducement system has activated. 
8.3.3 
A "fuel-lockout" approach prevents the vehicle from being refuelled by locking 
the fuel filler system after the inducement system activates. The lockout system 
shall be robust to prevent it being tampered with 
8.3.4 
A "performance restriction" approach restricts the speed of the vehicle after the 
inducement system activates. The level of speed limitation shall be noticeable 
to the driver and significantly reduce the maximum speed of the vehicle. Such 
limitation shall enter into operation gradually or after an engine start. Shortly 
before engine restarts are prevented, the speed of the vehicle shall not exceed 
50 km/h. 
8.3.4.1 
In the case that the warning system was activated at least 2,400 km before the 
reagent tank was expected to become empty, or the irregularities described in 
paragraphs 4. or 5. or the NOx levels described in paragraph 6.2. have occurred, 
engine restarts shall be prevented immediately after the vehicle has travelled a 
distance expected to be sufficient for driving the average driving range of the 



--- PAGE 80 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 80 of 762 
 
vehicle with a complete tank of fuel since the activation of the inducement 
system. 
8.3.4.2 
In the case that the inducement system was activated at the level described in 
paragraph 8.2.(b), engine restarts shall be prevented immediately after the 
vehicle has travelled a distance expected to be sufficient for driving 75 per cent 
of the average driving range of the vehicle with a complete tank of fuel since 
the activation of the inducement system. 
8.3.4.3 
In the case that the inducement system was activated at the level described in 
paragraph 8.2.(c), engine restarts shall be prevented immediately after the 
vehicle has travelled a distance expected to be sufficient for driving the average 
driving range of the vehicle with 5 per cent of the capacity of the reagent tank, 
since the activation of the inducement system. 
8.3.4.4 
In addition, engine restarts shall be prevented immediately after the reagent tank 
becomes empty, should this situation occur earlier than the situations specified 
in paragraphs 8.3.4.1, 8.3.4.2. or 8.3.4.3. 
8.4 
Once the inducement system has prevented engine restarts, the inducement 
system shall only be deactivated if the irregularities specified in paragraphs 4., 
5., or 6. have been rectified or if the quantity of reagent added to the vehicle 
meets at least one of the following criteria: 
(a) 
 Expected to be sufficient for driving 150 per cent of an average driving 
range with a complete tank of fuel; or 
(b) 
 At least 10 per cent of the capacity of the reagent tank. 
After a repair has been carried out to correct a fault where the OBD system has 
been triggered under paragraph 7.2., the inducement system may be reinitialised 
via the OBD serial port (e.g. by a generic scan tool) to enable the vehicle to be 
restarted for self-diagnosis purposes. The vehicle shall operate for a maximum 
of 50 km to enable the success of the repair to be validated. The inducement 
system shall be fully reactivated if the fault persists after this validation 
8.5 
The driver warning system referred to in paragraph 3. shall display a message 
indicating clearly: 
(a) 
 The number of remaining restarts and/or the remaining distance; and 
(b) 
 The conditions under which the vehicle can be restarted. 
8.6 
The driver inducement system shall be deactivated when the conditions for its 
activation have ceased to exist. The driver inducement system shall not be 
automatically deactivated without the reason for its activation having been 
remedied. 
8.7 
Detailed written information fully describing the functional operation 
characteristics of the driver inducement system shall be provided to the Test 
Agency at the time of approval. 



--- PAGE 81 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 81 of 762 
 
8.8 
As part of the application for type approval under this Regulation, the 
manufacturer shall demonstrate the operation of the driver warning and 
inducement systems. 
9.0 
Information requirements 
9.1 
The manufacturer shall provide all owners of new vehicles with clear written 
information about any exhaust aftertreatment system which uses a reagent. This 
information shall state that if such an exhaust aftertreatment system is not 
functioning correctly, the driver shall be informed of a problem by the driver 
warning system and that the driver inducement system shall consequentially 
result in the vehicle being unable to start. 
9.2 
The instructions shall indicate requirements for the proper use and maintenance 
of vehicles, including the proper use of consumable reagents. 
9.3 
The instructions shall specify if consumable reagents have to be replenished by 
the vehicle driver between normal maintenance intervals. They shall indicate 
how the vehicle driver should replenish the reagent tank. The information shall 
also indicate a likely rate of reagent consumption for that type of vehicle and 
how often it should be replenished. 
9.4 
The instructions shall specify that use of, and replenishing of, a required reagent 
of the correct specifications is mandatory for the vehicle to comply with its 
certificate of conformity. 
9.5 
The instructions shall state that it may be a criminal offence to use a vehicle that 
does not consume any reagent if it is required for the reduction of emissions. 
9.6 
The instructions shall explain how the warning system and driver inducement 
systems work. In addition, the consequences of ignoring the warning system and 
not replenishing the reagent shall be explained. 
10.0 
Operating conditions of the after-treatment system 
 
Manufacturers shall ensure that any exhaust aftertreatment system which uses a 
reagent retains its emission control function during all ambient conditions, 
especially at low ambient temperatures. This includes taking measures to 
prevent the complete freezing of the reagent during parking times of up to 7 
days at 273 K (0°C) with the reagent tank 50 per cent full. If the reagent is 
frozen, the manufacturer shall ensure that the reagent shall be liquefied and 
ready for use within 20 minutes of the vehicle being started at 273 K (0°C) 
measured inside the reagent tank. 



--- PAGE 82 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 82 of 762 
 
Annexes Part A 
Annex A1 
Essential Characteristics of the Vehicle and Engine and Information Concerning the 
Conduct of Tests 
1.0 
Vehicle manufacturers shall provide essential characteristics of the vehicle and 
engine and information concerning the conduct of tests as per AIS-007 (Rev.5), as 
amended from time to time. 



--- PAGE 83 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 83 of 762 
 
Annex 1A- Appendix 1 
WLTP Test Report 
Test Report 
A Test Report is the report issued by the Test Agency responsible for conducting the tests 
according this regulation. 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 84 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 84 of 762 
 
 
Annex A1- Appendix 2 
WLTP Road Load Test Report 
 
Road Load Test Report 
Road Load Test Report is the report issued by the Test Agency responsible for conducting 
the tests according this regulation 



--- PAGE 85 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 85 of 762 
 
 
Annex A1- Appendix 3 
APPENDIX 3a 
Extended Documentation Package  
1.0 
Introduction  
 
In order for the Test Agency to be able to assess the proper use of AES, taking into 
account the prohibition of defeat devices, the manufacturer shall provide an 
extended documentation package. 
2.0 
Extended Documentation Package: 
 
The extended documentation package shall include the following information on all 
AES: 
2.1 
A declaration of the manufacturer that the vehicle does not contain any defeat device 
not covered by one of the exceptions in Clause 6.1.9 of this Regulation. 
2.2 
A description of the engine and the emission control strategies and devices 
employed, whether software or hardware, and any condition(s) under which the 
strategies and devices will not operate as they do during testing for TA; 
2.3 
A declaration of the software versions used to control these AES/BES, including 
the appropriate checksums of these software versions and instructions to the Test 
Agency on how to read the checksums; the declaration shall be updated and sent to 
the Test Agency that holds this extended documentation package each time there is 
a new software version that has an impact to the AES/BES; 
2.4 
Detailed technical reasoning of any AES including a risk assessment estimating the 
risk with the AES and without it, and information on the following: 
2.4.1 
Why any of the exception clauses from the defeat device prohibition in Clause 6.1.9 
of this Regulation 
2.4.2 
Hardware element(s) that need to be protected by the AES, where applicable; 
2.4.3 
Proof of sudden and irreparable engine damage that cannot be prevented by regular 
maintenance and would occur in the absence of the AES, where applicable; 
2.4.4 
A reasoned explanation on why there is a need to use an AES upon engine start, 
where applicable; 
2.5 
A description of the fuel system control logic, timing strategies and switch points 
during all modes of operation; 
2.6 
A description of the hierarchical relations among the AES (i.e., when more than one 
AES can be active concurrently, an indication of which AES is primary in 
responding, the method by which strategies interact, including data flow diagrams 



--- PAGE 86 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 86 of 762 
 
and decision logic and how does the hierarchy assure emissions from all AES are 
controlled to the lowest practical level; 
2.7 
A list of parameters which are measured and/or calculated by the AES, along with 
the purpose of every parameter measured and/or calculated and how each of those 
parameters relates to engine damage; including the method of calculation and how 
well these calculated parameters correlate with the true state of the parameter being 
controlled and any resulting tolerance or factor of safety incorporated into the 
analysis; 
2.8 
A list of engine/emission control parameters which are modulated as a function of 
the measured or calculated parameter(s) and the range of modulation for each 
engine/emission control parameter; along with the relationship between 
engine/emission control parameters and measured or calculated parameters 
2.9 
An evaluation of how the AES will control real-driving emissions to the lowest 
practical level, including a detailed analysis of the expected increase of total 
regulated pollutants and CO2 emissions by using the AES, compared to the BES. 
2.10 
The extended documentation package shall be limited to 100 pages and shall include 
all the main elements to allow the Test agency to assess the AES. The package may 
be complemented with annexes and other attached documents, containing additional 
and complementary elements, if necessary. 
 
The manufacturer shall send a new version of the extended documentation package 
to the Test agency every time changes are introduced to the AES. The new version 
shall be limited to the changes and their effect. The new version of the AES shall 
be evaluated and approved by the type Test Agency. 
 
The extended documentation package shall be structured as follows: 
3.0 
Extended Documentation Package for AES Application No. YYY/OEM. 
 
 
Parts 
Paragraph 
Point 
Explanation 
Introduction Document 
 
Introduction 
letter 
to 
Test 
agency 
Reference of the document with 
the version, the date of issuing the 
document, 
signature 
by 
the 
relevant 
person 
in 
the 
manufacturer organization 
 
Versioning table Content 
of 
each 
version 
modifications: and with part is 
modified   
 
Description 
of 
the 
(emission) 
types concerned 
 
 
 
Attached 
documents table 
List of all attached documents 
 
Absence 
of 
defeat 
device 
declaration 
 
+ signature 



--- PAGE 87 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 87 of 762 
 
Core Document 
0 
Acronyms/ 
abbreviations 
 
 
1 
GENERAL 
DESCRIPTION 
 
 
1.1 
Engine general 
presentation 
Description of main 
characteristics: displacement, 
after treatment. 
1.2 
General system 
architecture 
System bloc diagram: list of 
sensors and actuators, explanation 
of engine general functions 
1.3 
Reading of 
software and 
calibration 
version 
 
E.g. scan-tool explanation 
2 
Base Emission 
Strategies 
 
2.x 
BES x 
Description of Strategy x 
2.y 
BES y 
Description of Strategy y 
3 
Auxiliary 
Emission 
Strategies 
 
 
3.0 
Presentation of 
the AESs 
Hierarchical relations among 
AES: description and justification 
(e.g. safety, reliability, etc.) 
3.x 
AES x 
3.x.1    
AES 
justificatio
n        
3.x.2    
 
Measured 
and/or          
modelled      
parameters 
for            
AES             
characteriz
ation 
3.x.3     
Action 
mode of  
AES – 
Parameters 
used 
3.x.4    
Effect of 
AES on        
pollutants 
and CO2 
3.y 
AES y 
3.y.1  
3.y.2  
etc. 
100 page limit ends here 
Annex 
 
List of types covered by this BES-
AES: including TA reference, 



--- PAGE 88 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 88 of 762 
 
software 
reference, 
calibration 
number, 
checksums 
of 
each 
version and of each CU (engine 
and/or after- treatment if any) 
Attached Documents 
 
Technical 
note 
for 
AES 
justification 
n° 
xxx 
Risk assessment or justification by 
testing or example of sudden 
damage, if any 
 
Technical 
note 
for 
AES 
justification 
n° 
yyy 
 
 
Test report for 
specific 
AES 
impact 
quantification 
test report of all specific tests done 
for 
AES 
justification, 
test 
conditions details, description of 
the 
vehicle/date of 
the tests 
emission/CO2 
impact 
with/without AES activation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 89 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 89 of 762 
 
 
APPENDIX 3b 
Methodology for The Assessment of AES 
 
The assessment of the AES by the type-Test Agency shall include at least the 
following verifications 
1.0 
The increase of emissions induced by the AES shall be kept at the lowest possible 
level: 
1.1 
The increase of total emissions when using an AES shall be kept at the lowest 
possible level throughout the normal use and life of the vehicles; 
2.0 
When used to justify 0an AES, the risk of sudden and irreparable damage to the 
"propulsion energy converter and the drivetrain", shall be appropriately 
demonstrated and documented, including the following information: 
2.1 
Proof of catastrophic (i.e. sudden and irreparable) engine damage shall be 
provided by the manufacturer, along with a risk assessment which includes an 
evaluation of the likelihood of the risk occurring and severity of the possible 
consequences, including results of tests carried out to this effect; 
2.2 
Durability and the long-term protection of the engine or components of the 
emission control system from wear and malfunctioning shall not be considered an 
acceptable reason to grant an exemption from the defeat device prohibition. 
3.0 
An adequate technical description shall document why it is necessary to use an 
AES for the 0safe operation of the vehicle: 
3.1 
Proof of an increased risk to the safe operation of the vehicle should be provided 
by the manufacturer along with a risk assessment which includes an evaluation of 
the likelihood of the risk occurring and severity of the possible consequences, 
including results of tests carried out to this effect; 
4.0 
An adequate technical description shall document why it is necessary to use an 
AES during engine start: 
4.1 
Proof of the need to use an AES during engine start shall be provided by the 
manufacturer along with a risk assessment which includes an evaluation of the 
likelihood of the risk occurring and severity of the possible consequences, 
including results of tests carried out to this effect. 
 
 



--- PAGE 90 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 90 of 762 
 
Annex A1- Appendix 4 
Evaporative Emissions Test Report 
Evaporative Emission Test Report is the report issued by the Test Agency responsible for 
conducting the tests according this regulation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 91 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 91 of 762 
 
Annex A1- Appendix 5 
Manufacturer’s Certificate of Compliance with the OBD in-use 
Performance Requirements 
Manufacturer: 
Address of the manufacturer: 
Certifies that: 
1. 
The vehicle types listed in attachment to this Certificate are in compliance with the 
provisions of clause 7.0 of Appendix 1 of Annex C5 of this Regulation relating to the 
in-use performance of the OBD system under all reasonably foreseeable driving 
conditions; 
2. 
The plan(s) describing the detailed technical criteria for incrementing the numerator 
and denominator of each monitor attached to this certificate are correct and complete 
for all types of vehicles to which this certificate applies. 
Done at [……Place] 
On […….Date] 
[Signature of the Manufacturer's Representative] 
Annexes:  
(a) 
 List of vehicle types to which this Certificate applies; 
(b) 
Plan(s) describing the detailed technical criteria for incrementing the numerator and 
denominator of each monitor, as well as plan(s) for disabling numerators, denominators 
and general denominator. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 92 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 92 of 762 
 
 
Annex A2 
 
(Reserved) 
 
 



--- PAGE 93 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 93 of 762 
 
Annex A3 
 
(Reserved) 
 
 



--- PAGE 94 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 94 of 762 
 
Annexes Part B 
The annexes in Annexes Part B describe the procedures for determining the levels of emissions 
of gaseous compounds, particulate matter, particle number (if PN measurement is required), 
CO2 emissions, fuel consumption, electric energy consumption and electric range from light-
duty vehicles. 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 95 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 95 of 762 
 
Annex B1 
Worldwide light-duty test cycles (WLTC) 
1.0 
General Requirements  
 
The cycle to be driven depends on the ratio of the test vehicle’s rated power to 
mass in running order minus 75 kg, W/kg, and its maximum velocity, 𝑣𝑚𝑎𝑥 (as 
defined in paragraph 3.7.2. of this Regulation) 
 
The cycle resulting from the requirements described in this annex shall be referred 
to in other parts of this Regulation as the "applicable cycle". 
2.0 
Vehicle classifications 
2.1 
Class 1 vehicles have a power to mass in running order minus 75 kg ratio 
𝑃𝑚𝑟≤ 22 W/kg. 
2.2 
Class 2 vehicles have a power to mass in running order minus 75 kg ratio > 22 
but ≤ 34 W/kg. 
2.3 
Class 3 vehicles have a power to mass in running order minus 75 kg ratio > 34 
W/kg. 
2.3.1 
Class 3 vehicles are divided into 2 subclasses according to their maximum speed, 
vmax. 
2.3.1.1 
Class 3a vehicles with vmax < 120 km/h. 
2.3.1.2 
Class 3b vehicles with vmax ≥ 120 km/h. 
2.3.2 
All vehicles tested according to Annex B8 shall be considered to be Class 3 
vehicles. 
3.0 
Test cycles 
3.1 
Class 1 cycle 
3.1.1 
A complete Class 1 cycle shall consist of a low phase (Low1), a medium phase 
(Medium1) and an additional low phase (Low1). 
3.1.2 
The Low1 phase is described in Figure A1/1 and Table A1/1. 
3.1.3 
The Medium1 phase is described in Figure A1/2 and Table A1/2. 
3.2 
Class 2 cycle 
3.2.1 
A complete Class 2 cycle consist of a low phase (Low2), a medium phase 
(Medium2) and a high phase (High2) 
3.2.2 
The Low2 phase is described in Figure A1/3 and Table A1/3. 



--- PAGE 96 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 96 of 762 
 
3.2.3 
The Medium2 phase is described in Figure A1/4 and Table A1/4. 
3.2.4 
The High2 phase is described in Figure A1/5 and Table A1/5. 
3.3 
Class 3 cycle 
 
Class 3 cycles are divided into 2 subclasses to reflect the subdivision of Class 3 
vehicles. 
3.3.1 
Class 3a cycle 
3.3.1.1 
A complete Class 3a cycle  consist of a low phase (Low3), a medium phase 
(Medium3a) and a high phase (High3a) 
3.3.1.2 
The Low3 phase is described in Figure A1/7 and Table A1/7. 
3.3.1.3 
The Medium3a phase is described in Figure A1/8 and Table A1/8. 
3.3.1.4 
The High3a phase is described in Figure A1/10 and Table A1/10. 
3.3.2 
Class 3b cycle 
3.3.2.1 
A complete Class 3b cycle consist of a low phase (Low3) phase, a medium phase 
(Medium3b) and a high phase (High3b) 
3.3.2.2 
The Low3 phase is described in Figure A1/7 and Table A1/7. 
3.3.2.3 
The Medium3b phase is described in Figure A1/9 and Table A1/9. 
3.3.2.4 
The High3b phase is described in Figure A1/11 and Table A1/11. 
3.4 
Duration of the cycle phases 
3.4.1 
Class 1 cycle. 
 
The first low speed phase starts at second 0 (tstart_low11) and ends at second 589 
(tend_low11, duration 589 s) 
 
The medium speed phase starts at second 589 (tstart_medium1) and ends at 
second 1022 (tend_medium1, duration 433 s) 
 
The second low speed phase starts at second 1022 (tstart_low12) and ends at 
second 1611 (tend_low12, duration 589 s) 
3.4.2 
Class 2 and class 3 cycles. 
 
The low speed phase starts at second 0 (tstart_low2, tstart_low3) and ends at second 589 
(tend_low2, tend_low3, duration 589 s) 
 
The medium speed phase starts at second 589 (tstart_medium2, tstart_medium3) 
and ends at second 1022 (tend_medium2, tend_medium3, duration 433 s) 



--- PAGE 97 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 97 of 762 
 
 
The high speed phase starts at second 1022 (tstart_high2, tstart_high3) and ends at 
second 1477 (tend_high2, tend_high3, duration 455 s) 
3.5 
OVC-HEVs and PEVs shall be tested using the appropriate Class 3a and Class 3b 
WLTC (see Annex B8). 
4.0 
WLTC Class 1 cycle  
 
Figure A1/1 
WLTC, Class 1 cycle, phase Low11 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure A1/2a 
WLTC, Class 1 cycle, phase Medium1 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure A1/2b 
WLTC, Class 1 cycle, phase Low12 



--- PAGE 98 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 98 of 762 
 
 
 
 
Table A1/1 
WLTC, Class 1 cycle, phase Low11 (Second 589 is the end of phase Low11 and the start 
of phase Medium1) 
Time 
in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in 
s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in 
s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed in km/h 
0 
0.0 
47 
18.8 
94 
0.0 
141 
35.7 
1 
0.0 
48 
19.5 
95 
0.0 
142 
35.9 
2 
0.0 
49 
20.2 
96 
0.0 
143 
36.6 
3 
0.0 
50 
20.9 
97 
0.0 
144 
37.5 
4 
0.0 
51 
21.7 
98 
0.0 
145 
38.4 
5 
0.0 
52 
22.4 
99 
0.0 
146 
39.3 
6 
0.0 
53 
23.1 
100 
0.0 
147 
40.0 
7 
0.0 
54 
23.7 
101 
0.0 
148 
40.6 
8 
0.0 
55 
24.4 
102 
0.0 
149 
41.1 
9 
0.0 
56 
25.1 
103 
0.0 
150 
41.4 
10 
0.0 
57 
25.4 
104 
0.0 
151 
41.6 
11 
0.0 
58 
25.2 
105 
0.0 
152 
41.8 
12 
0.2 
59 
23.4 
106 
0.0 
153 
41.8 
13 
3.1 
60 
21.8 
107 
0.0 
154 
41.9 
14 
5.7 
61 
19.7 
108 
0.7 
155 
41.9 
15 
8.0 
62 
17.3 
109 
1.1 
156 
42.0 
16 
10.1 
63 
14.7 
110 
1.9 
157 
42.0 
17 
12.0 
64 
12.0 
111 
2.5 
158 
42.2 
18 
13.8 
65 
9.4 
112 
3.5 
159 
42.3 
19 
15.4 
66 
5.6 
113 
4.7 
160 
42.6 



--- PAGE 99 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 99 of 762 
 
20 
16.7 
67 
3.1 
114 
6.1 
161 
43.0 
21 
17.7 
68 
0.0 
115 
7.5 
162 
43.3 
22 
18.3 
69 
0.0 
116 
9.4 
163 
43.7 
23 
18.8 
70 
0.0 
117 
11.0 
164 
44.0 
24 
18.9 
71 
0.0 
118 
12.9 
165 
44.3 
25 
18.4 
72 
0.0 
119 
14.5 
166 
44.5 
26 
16.9 
73 
0.0 
120 
16.4 
167 
44.6 
27 
14.3 
74 
0.0 
121 
18.0 
168 
44.6 
28 
10.8 
75 
0.0 
122 
20.0 
169 
44.5 
29 
7.1 
76 
0.0 
123 
21.5 
170 
44.4 
30 
4.0 
77 
0.0 
124 
23.5 
171 
44.3 
31 
0.0 
78 
0.0 
125 
25.0 
172 
44.2 
32 
0.0 
79 
0.0 
126 
26.8 
173 
44.1 
33 
0.0 
80 
0.0 
127 
28.2 
174 
44.0 
34 
0.0 
81 
0.0 
128 
30.0 
175 
43.9 
35 
1.5 
82 
0.0 
129 
31.4 
176 
43.8 
36 
3.8 
83 
0.0 
130 
32.5 
177 
43.7 
37 
5.6 
84 
0.0 
131 
33.2 
178 
43.6 
38 
7.5 
85 
0.0 
132 
33.4 
179 
43.5 
39 
9.2 
86 
0.0 
133 
33.7 
180 
43.4 
40 
10.8 
87 
0.0 
134 
33.9 
181 
43.3 
41 
12.4 
88 
0.0 
135 
34.2 
182 
43.1 
42 
13.8 
89 
0.0 
136 
34.4 
183 
42.9 
43 
15.2 
90 
0.0 
137 
34.7 
184 
42.7 
44 
16.3 
91 
0.0 
138 
34.9 
185 
42.5 
45 
17.3 
92 
0.0 
139 
35.2 
186 
42.3 
46 
18.0 
93 
0.0 
140 
35.4 
187 
42.2 
188 
42.2 
237 
39.7 
286 
25.3 
335 
14.3 
189 
42.2 
238 
39.9 
287 
24.9 
336 
14.3 
190 
42.3 
239 
40.0 
288 
24.5 
337 
14.0 
191 
42.4 
240 
40.1 
289 
24.2 
338 
13.0 
192 
42.5 
241 
40.2 
290 
24.0 
339 
11.4 
193 
42.7 
242 
40.3 
291 
23.8 
340 
10.2 
194 
42.9 
243 
40.4 
292 
23.6 
341 
8.0 



--- PAGE 100 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 100 of 762 
 
195 
43.1 
244 
40.5 
293 
23.5 
342 
7.0 
196 
43.2 
245 
40.5 
294 
23.4 
343 
6.0 
197 
43.3 
246 
40.4 
295 
23.3 
344 
5.5 
198 
43.4 
247 
40.3 
296 
23.3 
345 
5.0 
199 
43.4 
248 
40.2 
297 
23.2 
346 
4.5 
200 
43.2 
249 
40.1 
298 
23.1 
347 
4.0 
201 
42.9 
250 
39.7 
299 
23.0 
348 
3.5 
202 
42.6 
251 
38.8 
300 
22.8 
349 
3.0 
203 
42.2 
252 
37.4 
301 
22.5 
350 
2.5 
204 
41.9 
253 
35.6 
302 
22.1 
351 
2.0 
205 
41.5 
254 
33.4 
303 
21.7 
352 
1.5 
206 
41.0 
255 
31.2 
304 
21.1 
353 
1.0 
207 
40.5 
256 
29.1 
305 
20.4 
354 
0.5 
208 
39.9 
257 
27.6 
306 
19.5 
355 
0.0 
209 
39.3 
258 
26.6 
307 
18.5 
356 
0.0 
210 
38.7 
259 
26.2 
308 
17.6 
357 
0.0 
211 
38.1 
260 
26.3 
309 
16.6 
358 
0.0 
212 
37.5 
261 
26.7 
310 
15.7 
359 
0.0 
213 
36.9 
262 
27.5 
311 
14.9 
360 
0.0 
214 
36.3 
263 
28.4 
312 
14.3 
361 
2.2 
215 
35.7 
264 
29.4 
313 
14.1 
362 
4.5 
216 
35.1 
265 
30.4 
314 
14.0 
363 
6.6 
217 
34.5 
266 
31.2 
315 
13.9 
364 
8.6 
218 
33.9 
267 
31.9 
316 
13.8 
365 
10.6 
219 
33.6 
268 
32.5 
317 
13.7 
366 
12.5 
220 
33.5 
269 
33.0 
318 
13.6 
367 
14.4 
221 
33.6 
270 
33.4 
319 
13.5 
368 
16.3 
222 
33.9 
271 
33.8 
320 
13.4 
369 
17.9 
223 
34.3 
272 
34.1 
321 
13.3 
370 
19.1 
224 
34.7 
273 
34.3 
322 
13.2 
371 
19.9 
225 
35.1 
274 
34.3 
323 
13.2 
372 
20.3 
226 
35.5 
275 
33.9 
324 
13.2 
373 
20.5 
227 
35.9 
276 
33.3 
325 
13.4 
374 
20.7 
228 
36.4 
277 
32.6 
326 
13.5 
375 
21.0 



--- PAGE 101 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 101 of 762 
 
229 
36.9 
278 
31.8 
327 
13.7 
376 
21.6 
230 
37.4 
279 
30.7 
328 
13.8 
377 
22.6 
231 
37.9 
280 
29.6 
329 
14.0 
378 
23.7 
232 
38.3 
281 
28.6 
330 
14.1 
379 
24.8 
233 
38.7 
282 
27.8 
331 
14.3 
380 
25.7 
234 
39.1 
283 
27.0 
332 
14.4 
381 
26.2 
235 
39.3 
284 
26.4 
333 
14.4 
382 
26.4 
236 
39.5 
285 
25.8 
334 
14.4 
383 
26.4 
384 
26.4 
433 
0.0 
482 
3.1 
531 
48.2 
385 
26.5 
434 
0.0 
483 
4.6 
532 
48.5 
386 
26.6 
435 
0.0 
484 
6.1 
533 
48.7 
387 
26.8 
436 
0.0 
485 
7.8 
534 
48.9 
388 
26.9 
437 
0.0 
486 
9.5 
535 
49.1 
389 
27.2 
438 
0.0 
487 
11.3 
536 
49.1 
390 
27.5 
439 
0.0 
488 
13.2 
537 
49.0 
391 
28.0 
440 
0.0 
489 
15.0 
538 
48.8 
392 
28.8 
441 
0.0 
490 
16.8 
539 
48.6 
393 
29.9 
442 
0.0 
491 
18.4 
540 
48.5 
394 
31.0 
443 
0.0 
492 
20.1 
541 
48.4 
395 
31.9 
444 
0.0 
493 
21.6 
542 
48.3 
396 
32.5 
445 
0.0 
494 
23.1 
543 
48.2 
397 
32.6 
446 
0.0 
495 
24.6 
544 
48.1 
398 
32.4 
447 
0.0 
496 
26.0 
545 
47.5 
399 
32.0 
448 
0.0 
497 
27.5 
546 
46.7 
400 
31.3 
449 
0.0 
498 
29.0 
547 
45.7 
401 
30.3 
450 
0.0 
499 
30.6 
548 
44.6 
402 
28.0 
451 
0.0 
500 
32.1 
549 
42.9 
403 
27.0 
452 
0.0 
501 
33.7 
550 
40.8 
404 
24.0 
453 
0.0 
502 
35.3 
551 
38.2 
405 
22.5 
454 
0.0 
503 
36.8 
552 
35.3 
406 
19.0 
455 
0.0 
504 
38.1 
553 
31.8 
407 
17.5 
456 
0.0 
505 
39.3 
554 
28.7 
408 
14.0 
457 
0.0 
506 
40.4 
555 
25.8 
409 
12.5 
458 
0.0 
507 
41.2 
556 
22.9 



--- PAGE 102 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 102 of 762 
 
 
 
410 
9.0 
459 
0.0 
508 
41.9 
557 
20.2 
411 
7.5 
460 
0.0 
509 
42.6 
558 
17.3 
412 
4.0 
461 
0.0 
510 
43.3 
559 
15.0 
413 
2.9 
462 
0.0 
511 
44.0 
560 
12.3 
414 
0.0 
463 
0.0 
512 
44.6 
561 
10.3 
415 
0.0 
464 
0.0 
513 
45.3 
562 
7.8 
416 
0.0 
465 
0.0 
514 
45.5 
563 
6.5 
417 
0.0 
466 
0.0 
515 
45.5 
564 
4.4 
418 
0.0 
467 
0.0 
516 
45.2 
565 
3.2 
419 
0.0 
468 
0.0 
517 
44.7 
566 
1.2 
420 
0.0 
469 
0.0 
518 
44.2 
567 
0.0 
421 
0.0 
470 
0.0 
519 
43.6 
568 
0.0 
422 
0.0 
471 
0.0 
520 
43.1 
569 
0.0 
423 
0.0 
472 
0.0 
521 
42.8 
570 
0.0 
424 
0.0 
473 
0.0 
522 
42.7 
571 
0.0 
425 
0.0 
474 
0.0 
523 
42.8 
572 
0.0 
426 
0.0 
475 
0.0 
524 
43.3 
573 
0.0 
427 
0.0 
476 
0.0 
525 
43.9 
574 
0.0 
428 
0.0 
477 
0.0 
526 
44.6 
575 
0.0 
429 
0.0 
478 
0.0 
527 
45.4 
576 
0.0 
430 
0.0 
479 
0.0 
528 
46.3 
577 
0.0 
431 
0.0 
480 
0.0 
529 
47.2 
578 
0.0 
432 
0.0 
481 
1.6 
530 
47.8 
579 
0.0 
580 
0.0 
 
 
 
 
 
 
581 
0.0 
 
 
 
 
 
 
582 
0.0 
 
 
 
 
 
 
583 
0.0 
 
 
 
 
 
 
584 
0.0 
 
 
 
 
 
 
585 
0.0 
 
 
 
 
 
 
586 
0.0 
 
 
 
 
 
 
587 
0.0 
 
 
 
 
 
 
588 
0.0 
 
 
 
 
 
 
589 
0.0 
 
 
 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 103 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 103 of 762 
 
 
Table A1/2a 
WLTC, Class 1 cycle, phase Medium1 (The start of this phase is at second 589) 
Time 
in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in 
s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in 
s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed in km/h 
590 
0.0 
637 
18.4 
684 
56.2 
731 
57.9 
591 
0.0 
638 
19.0 
685 
56.7 
732 
58.8 
592 
0.0 
639 
20.1 
686 
57.3 
733 
59.6 
593 
0.0 
640 
21.5 
687 
57.9 
734 
60.3 
594 
0.0 
641 
23.1 
688 
58.4 
735 
60.9 
595 
0.0 
642 
24.9 
689 
58.8 
736 
61.3 
596 
0.0 
643 
26.4 
690 
58.9 
737 
61.7 
597 
0.0 
644 
27.9 
691 
58.4 
738 
61.8 
598 
0.0 
645 
29.2 
692 
58.1 
739 
61.8 
599 
0.0 
646 
30.4 
693 
57.6 
740 
61.6 
600 
0.6 
647 
31.6 
694 
56.9 
741 
61.2 
601 
1.9 
648 
32.8 
695 
56.3 
742 
60.8 
602 
2.7 
649 
34.0 
696 
55.7 
743 
60.4 
603 
5.2 
650 
35.1 
697 
55.3 
744 
59.9 
604 
7.0 
651 
36.3 
698 
55.0 
745 
59.4 
605 
9.6 
652 
37.4 
699 
54.7 
746 
58.9 
606 
11.4 
653 
38.6 
700 
54.5 
747 
58.6 
607 
14.1 
654 
39.6 
701 
54.4 
748 
58.2 
608 
15.8 
655 
40.6 
702 
54.3 
749 
57.9 
609 
18.2 
656 
41.6 
703 
54.2 
750 
57.7 
610 
19.7 
657 
42.4 
704 
54.1 
751 
57.5 
611 
21.8 
658 
43.0 
705 
53.8 
752 
57.2 
612 
23.2 
659 
43.6 
706 
53.5 
753 
57.0 
613 
24.7 
660 
44.0 
707 
53.0 
754 
56.8 
614 
25.8 
661 
44.4 
708 
52.6 
755 
56.6 
615 
26.7 
662 
44.8 
709 
52.2 
756 
56.6 
616 
27.2 
663 
45.2 
710 
51.9 
757 
56.7 
617 
27.7 
664 
45.6 
711 
51.7 
758 
57.1 
618 
28.1 
665 
46.0 
712 
51.7 
759 
57.6 
619 
28.4 
666 
46.5 
713 
51.8 
760 
58.2 
620 
28.7 
667 
47.0 
714 
52.0 
761 
59.0 
621 
29.0 
668 
47.5 
715 
52.3 
762 
59.8 
622 
29.2 
669 
48.0 
716 
52.6 
763 
60.6 
623 
29.4 
670 
48.6 
717 
52.9 
764 
61.4 
624 
29.4 
671 
49.1 
718 
53.1 
765 
62.2 
625 
29.3 
672 
49.7 
719 
53.2 
766 
62.9 
626 
28.9 
673 
50.2 
720 
53.3 
767 
63.5 
627 
28.5 
674 
50.8 
721 
53.3 
768 
64.2 
628 
28.1 
675 
51.3 
722 
53.4 
769 
64.4 
629 
27.6 
676 
51.8 
723 
53.5 
770 
64.4 
630 
26.9 
677 
52.3 
724 
53.7 
771 
64.0 
631 
26.0 
678 
52.9 
725 
54.0 
772 
63.5 
632 
24.6 
679 
53.4 
726 
54.4 
773 
62.9 
633 
22.8 
680 
54.0 
727 
54.9 
774 
62.4 



--- PAGE 104 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 104 of 762 
 
Table A1/2a 
WLTC, Class 1 cycle, phase Medium1 (The start of this phase is at second 589) 
Time 
in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in 
s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in 
s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed in km/h 
634 
21.0 
681 
54.5 
728 
55.6 
775 
62.0 
635 
19.5 
682 
55.1 
729 
56.3 
776 
61.6 
636 
18.6 
683 
55.6 
730 
57.1 
777 
61.4 
778 
61.2 
827 
49.7 
876 
53.2 
925 
44.4 
779 
61.0 
828 
50.6 
877 
53.1 
926 
44.5 
780 
60.7 
829 
51.6 
878 
53.0 
927 
44.6 
781 
60.2 
830 
52.5 
879 
53.0 
928 
44.7 
782 
59.6 
831 
53.3 
880 
53.0 
929 
44.6 
783 
58.9 
832 
54.1 
881 
53.0 
930 
44.5 
784 
58.1 
833 
54.7 
882 
53.0 
931 
44.4 
785 
57.2 
834 
55.3 
883 
53.0 
932 
44.2 
786 
56.3 
835 
55.7 
884 
52.8 
933 
44.1 
787 
55.3 
836 
56.1 
885 
52.5 
934 
43.7 
788 
54.4 
837 
56.4 
886 
51.9 
935 
43.3 
789 
53.4 
838 
56.7 
887 
51.1 
936 
42.8 
790 
52.4 
839 
57.1 
888 
50.2 
937 
42.3 
791 
51.4 
840 
57.5 
889 
49.2 
938 
41.6 
792 
50.4 
841 
58.0 
890 
48.2 
939 
40.7 
793 
49.4 
842 
58.7 
891 
47.3 
940 
39.8 
794 
48.5 
843 
59.3 
892 
46.4 
941 
38.8 
795 
47.5 
844 
60.0 
893 
45.6 
942 
37.8 
796 
46.5 
845 
60.6 
894 
45.0 
943 
36.9 
797 
45.4 
846 
61.3 
895 
44.3 
944 
36.1 
798 
44.3 
847 
61.5 
896 
43.8 
945 
35.5 
799 
43.1 
848 
61.5 
897 
43.3 
946 
35.0 
800 
42.0 
849 
61.4 
898 
42.8 
947 
34.7 
801 
40.8 
850 
61.2 
899 
42.4 
948 
34.4 
802 
39.7 
851 
60.5 
900 
42.0 
949 
34.1 
803 
38.8 
852 
60.0 
901 
41.6 
950 
33.9 
804 
38.1 
853 
59.5 
902 
41.1 
951 
33.6 
805 
37.4 
854 
58.9 
903 
40.3 
952 
33.3 
806 
37.1 
855 
58.4 
904 
39.5 
953 
33.0 
807 
36.9 
856 
57.9 
905 
38.6 
954 
32.7 
808 
37.0 
857 
57.5 
906 
37.7 
955 
32.3 
809 
37.5 
858 
57.1 
907 
36.7 
956 
31.9 
810 
37.8 
859 
56.7 
908 
36.2 
957 
31.5 
811 
38.2 
860 
56.4 
909 
36.0 
958 
31.0 
812 
38.6 
861 
56.1 
910 
36.2 
959 
30.6 
813 
39.1 
862 
55.8 
911 
37.0 
960 
30.2 
814 
39.6 
863 
55.5 
912 
38.0 
961 
29.7 
815 
40.1 
864 
55.3 
913 
39.0 
962 
29.1 
816 
40.7 
865 
55.0 
914 
39.7 
963 
28.4 
817 
41.3 
866 
54.7 
915 
40.2 
964 
27.6 
818 
41.9 
867 
54.4 
916 
40.7 
965 
26.8 
819 
42.7 
868 
54.2 
917 
41.2 
966 
26.0 



--- PAGE 105 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 105 of 762 
 
Table A1/2a 
WLTC, Class 1 cycle, phase Medium1 (The start of this phase is at second 589) 
Time 
in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in 
s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in 
s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed in km/h 
820 
43.4 
869 
54.0 
918 
41.7 
967 
25.1 
821 
44.2 
870 
53.9 
919 
42.2 
968 
24.2 
822 
45.0 
871 
53.7 
920 
42.7 
969 
23.3 
823 
45.9 
872 
53.6 
921 
43.2 
970 
22.4 
824 
46.8 
873 
53.5 
922 
43.6 
971 
21.5 
825 
47.7 
874 
53.4 
923 
44.0 
972 
20.6 
826 
48.7 
875 
53.3 
924 
44.2 
973 
19.7 
974 
18.8  
 
 
 
 
 
975 
17.7  
 
 
 
 
 
976 
16.4  
 
 
 
 
 
977 
14.9  
 
 
 
 
 
978 
13.2  
 
 
 
 
 
979 
11.3  
 
 
 
 
 
980 
9.4  
 
 
 
 
 
981 
7.5  
 
 
 
 
 
982 
5.6  
 
 
 
 
 
983 
3.7  
 
 
 
 
 
984 
1.9  
 
 
 
 
 
985 
1.0  
 
 
 
 
 
986 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
987 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
988 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
989 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
990 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
991 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
992 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
993 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
994 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
995 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
996 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
997 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
998 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
999 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1000 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1001 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1002 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1003 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1004 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1005 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1006 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1007 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1008 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1009 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1010 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1011 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 106 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 106 of 762 
 
Table A1/2a 
WLTC, Class 1 cycle, phase Medium1 (The start of this phase is at second 589) 
Time 
in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in 
s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in 
s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed in km/h 
1012 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1013 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1014 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1015 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1016 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1017 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1018 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1019 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1020 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1021 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1022 
0.0  
  
  
  
  
  
 
Table A1/2b 
WLTC, Class 1 cycle, phase Low12 (Second 1022 is the end of phase Medium1 and 
the start of phase Low12) 
Time 
in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in 
s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in 
s 
Speed in km/h 
1023 
0.0 
1070 
19.5 
1117 
0.0 
1164 
35.9 
1024 
0.0 
1071 
20.2 
1118 
0.0 
1165 
36.6 
1025 
0.0 
1072 
20.9 
1119 
0.0 
1166 
37.5 
1026 
0.0 
1073 
21.7 
1120 
0.0 
1167 
38.4 
1027 
0.0 
1074 
22.4 
1121 
0.0 
1168 
39.3 
1028 
0.0 
1075 
23.1 
1122 
0.0 
1169 
40.0 
1029 
0.0 
1076 
23.7 
1123 
0.0 
1170 
40.6 
1030 
0.0 
1077 
24.4 
1124 
0.0 
1171 
41.1 
1031 
0.0 
1078 
25.1 
1125 
0.0 
1172 
41.4 
1032 
0.0 
1079 
25.4 
1126 
0.0 
1173 
41.6 
1033 
0.0 
1080 
25.2 
1127 
0.0 
1174 
41.8 
1034 
0.2 
1081 
23.4 
1128 
0.0 
1175 
41.8 
1035 
3.1 
1082 
21.8 
1129 
0.0 
1176 
41.9 
1036 
5.7 
1083 
19.7 
1130 
0.7 
1177 
41.9 
1037 
8.0 
1084 
17.3 
1131 
1.1 
1178 
42.0 
1038 
10.1 
1085 
14.7 
1132 
1.9 
1179 
42.0 
1039 
12.0 
1086 
12.0 
1133 
2.5 
1180 
42.2 
1040 
13.8 
1087 
9.4 
1134 
3.5 
1181 
42.3 
1041 
15.4 
1088 
5.6 
1135 
4.7 
1182 
42.6 
1042 
16.7 
1089 
3.1 
1136 
6.1 
1183 
43.0 
1043 
17.7 
1090 
0.0 
1137 
7.5 
1184 
43.3 
1044 
18.3 
1091 
0.0 
1138 
9.4 
1185 
43.7 
1045 
18.8 
1092 
0.0 
1139 
11.0 
1186 
44.0 
1046 
18.9 
1093 
0.0 
1140 
12.9 
1187 
44.3 
1047 
18.4 
1094 
0.0 
1141 
14.5 
1188 
44.5 
1048 
16.9 
1095 
0.0 
1142 
16.4 
1189 
44.6 
1049 
14.3 
1096 
0.0 
1143 
18.0 
1190 
44.6 



--- PAGE 107 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 107 of 762 
 
Table A1/2b 
WLTC, Class 1 cycle, phase Low12 (Second 1022 is the end of phase Medium1 and 
the start of phase Low12) 
Time 
in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in 
s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in 
s 
Speed in km/h 
1050 
10.8 
1097 
0.0 
1144 
20.0 
1191 
44.5 
1051 
7.1 
1098 
0.0 
1145 
21.5 
1192 
44.4 
1052 
4.0 
1099 
0.0 
1146 
23.5 
1193 
44.3 
1053 
0.0 
1100 
0.0 
1147 
25.0 
1194 
44.2 
1054 
0.0 
1101 
0.0 
1148 
26.8 
1195 
44.1 
1055 
0.0 
1102 
0.0 
1149 
28.2 
1196 
44.0 
1056 
0.0 
1103 
0.0 
1150 
30.0 
1197 
43.9 
1057 
1.5 
1104 
0.0 
1151 
31.4 
1198 
43.8 
1058 
3.8 
1105 
0.0 
1152 
32.5 
1199 
43.7 
1059 
5.6 
1106 
0.0 
1153 
33.2 
1200 
43.6 
1060 
7.5 
1107 
0.0 
1154 
33.4 
1201 
43.5 
1061 
9.2 
1108 
0.0 
1155 
33.7 
1202 
43.4 
1062 
10.8 
1109 
0.0 
1156 
33.9 
1203 
43.3 
1063 
12.4 
1110 
0.0 
1157 
34.2 
1204 
43.1 
1064 
13.8 
1111 
0.0 
1158 
34.4 
1205 
42.9 
1065 
15.2 
1112 
0.0 
1159 
34.7 
1206 
42.7 
1066 
16.3 
1113 
0.0 
1160 
34.9 
1207 
42.5 
1067 
17.3 
1114 
0.0 
1161 
35.2 
1208 
42.3 
1068 
18.0 
1115 
0.0 
1162 
35.4 
1209 
42.2 
1069 
18.8 
1116 
0.0 
1163 
35.7 
1210 
42.2 
1211 
42.2 
1260 
39.9 
1309 
24.9 
1358 
14.3 
1212 
42.3 
1261 
40.0 
1310 
24.5 
1359 
14.0 
1213 
42.4 
1262 
40.1 
1311 
24.2 
1360 
13.0 
1214 
42.5 
1263 
40.2 
1312 
24.0 
1361 
11.4 
1215 
42.7 
1264 
40.3 
1313 
23.8 
1362 
10.2 
1216 
42.9 
1265 
40.4 
1314 
23.6 
1363 
8.0 
1217 
43.1 
1266 
40.5 
1315 
23.5 
1364 
7.0 
1218 
43.2 
1267 
40.5 
1316 
23.4 
1365 
6.0 
1219 
43.3 
1268 
40.4 
1317 
23.3 
1366 
5.5 
1220 
43.4 
1269 
40.3 
1318 
23.3 
1367 
5.0 
1221 
43.4 
1270 
40.2 
1319 
23.2 
1368 
4.5 
1222 
43.2 
1271 
40.1 
1320 
23.1 
1369 
4.0 
1223 
42.9 
1272 
39.7 
1321 
23.0 
1370 
3.5 
1224 
42.6 
1273 
38.8 
1322 
22.8 
1371 
3.0 
1225 
42.2 
1274 
37.4 
1323 
22.5 
1372 
2.5 
1226 
41.9 
1275 
35.6 
1324 
22.1 
1373 
2.0 
1227 
41.5 
1276 
33.4 
1325 
21.7 
1374 
1.5 
1228 
41.0 
1277 
31.2 
1326 
21.1 
1375 
1.0 
1229 
40.5 
1278 
29.1 
1327 
20.4 
1376 
0.5 
1230 
39.9 
1279 
27.6 
1328 
19.5 
1377 
0.0 
1231 
39.3 
1280 
26.6 
1329 
18.5 
1378 
0.0 
1232 
38.7 
1281 
26.2 
1330 
17.6 
1379 
0.0 
1233 
38.1 
1282 
26.3 
1331 
16.6 
1380 
0.0 
1234 
37.5 
1283 
26.7 
1332 
15.7 
1381 
0.0 



--- PAGE 108 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 108 of 762 
 
Table A1/2b 
WLTC, Class 1 cycle, phase Low12 (Second 1022 is the end of phase Medium1 and 
the start of phase Low12) 
Time 
in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in 
s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in 
s 
Speed in km/h 
1235 
36.9 
1284 
27.5 
1333 
14.9 
1382 
0.0 
1236 
36.3 
1285 
28.4 
1334 
14.3 
1383 
2.2 
1237 
35.7 
1286 
29.4 
1335 
14.1 
1384 
4.5 
1238 
35.1 
1287 
30.4 
1336 
14.0 
1385 
6.6 
1239 
34.5 
1288 
31.2 
1337 
13.9 
1386 
8.6 
1240 
33.9 
1289 
31.9 
1338 
13.8 
1387 
10.6 
1241 
33.6 
1290 
32.5 
1339 
13.7 
1388 
12.5 
1242 
33.5 
1291 
33.0 
1340 
13.6 
1389 
14.4 
1243 
33.6 
1292 
33.4 
1341 
13.5 
1390 
16.3 
1244 
33.9 
1293 
33.8 
1342 
13.4 
1391 
17.9 
1245 
34.3 
1294 
34.1 
1343 
13.3 
1392 
19.1 
1246 
34.7 
1295 
34.3 
1344 
13.2 
1393 
19.9 
1247 
35.1 
1296 
34.3 
1345 
13.2 
1394 
20.3 
1248 
35.5 
1297 
33.9 
1346 
13.2 
1395 
20.5 
1249 
35.9 
1298 
33.3 
1347 
13.4 
1396 
20.7 
1250 
36.4 
1299 
32.6 
1348 
13.5 
1397 
21.0 
1251 
36.9 
1300 
31.8 
1349 
13.7 
1398 
21.6 
1252 
37.4 
1301 
30.7 
1350 
13.8 
1399 
22.6 
1253 
37.9 
1302 
29.6 
1351 
14.0 
1400 
23.7 
1254 
38.3 
1303 
28.6 
1352 
14.1 
1401 
24.8 
1255 
38.7 
1304 
27.8 
1353 
14.3 
1402 
25.7 
1256 
39.1 
1305 
27.0 
1354 
14.4 
1403 
26.2 
1257 
39.3 
1306 
26.4 
1355 
14.4 
1404 
26.4 
1258 
39.5 
1307 
25.8 
1356 
14.4 
1405 
26.4 
1259 
39.7 
1308 
25.3 
1357 
14.3 
1406 
26.4 
1407 
26.5 
1456 
0.0 
1505 
4.6 
1554 
48.5 
1408 
26.6 
1457 
0.0 
1506 
6.1 
1555 
48.7 
1409 
26.8 
1458 
0.0 
1507 
7.8 
1556 
48.9 
1410 
26.9 
1459 
0.0 
1508 
9.5 
1557 
49.1 
1411 
27.2 
1460 
0.0 
1509 
11.3 
1558 
49.1 
1412 
27.5 
1461 
0.0 
1510 
13.2 
1559 
49.0 
1413 
28.0 
1462 
0.0 
1511 
15.0 
1560 
48.8 
1414 
28.8 
1463 
0.0 
1512 
16.8 
1561 
48.6 
1415 
29.9 
1464 
0.0 
1513 
18.4 
1562 
48.5 
1416 
31.0 
1465 
0.0 
1514 
20.1 
1563 
48.4 
1417 
31.9 
1466 
0.0 
1515 
21.6 
1564 
48.3 
1418 
32.5 
1467 
0.0 
1516 
23.1 
1565 
48.2 
1419 
32.6 
1468 
0.0 
1517 
24.6 
1566 
48.1 
1420 
32.4 
1469 
0.0 
1518 
26.0 
1567 
47.5 
1421 
32.0 
1470 
0.0 
1519 
27.5 
1568 
46.7 
1422 
31.3 
1471 
0.0 
1520 
29.0 
1569 
45.7 
1423 
30.3 
1472 
0.0 
1521 
30.6 
1570 
44.6 
1424 
28.0 
1473 
0.0 
1522 
32.1 
1571 
42.9 
1425 
27.0 
1474 
0.0 
1523 
33.7 
1572 
40.8 



--- PAGE 109 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 109 of 762 
 
Table A1/2b 
WLTC, Class 1 cycle, phase Low12 (Second 1022 is the end of phase Medium1 and 
the start of phase Low12) 
Time 
in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in 
s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in 
s 
Speed in km/h 
1426 
24.0 
1475 
0.0 
1524 
35.3 
1573 
38.2 
1427 
22.5 
1476 
0.0 
1525 
36.8 
1574 
35.3 
1428 
19.0 
1477 
0.0 
1526 
38.1 
1575 
31.8 
1429 
17.5 
1478 
0.0 
1527 
39.3 
1576 
28.7 
1430 
14.0 
1479 
0.0 
1528 
40.4 
1577 
25.8 
1431 
12.5 
1480 
0.0 
1529 
41.2 
1578 
22.9 
1432 
9.0 
1481 
0.0 
1530 
41.9 
1579 
20.2 
1433 
7.5 
1482 
0.0 
1531 
42.6 
1580 
17.3 
1434 
4.0 
1483 
0.0 
1532 
43.3 
1581 
15.0 
1435 
2.9 
1484 
0.0 
1533 
44.0 
1582 
12.3 
1436 
0.0 
1485 
0.0 
1534 
44.6 
1583 
10.3 
1437 
0.0 
1486 
0.0 
1535 
45.3 
1584 
7.8 
1438 
0.0 
1487 
0.0 
1536 
45.5 
1585 
6.5 
1439 
0.0 
1488 
0.0 
1537 
45.5 
1586 
4.4 
1440 
0.0 
1489 
0.0 
1538 
45.2 
1587 
3.2 
1441 
0.0 
1490 
0.0 
1539 
44.7 
1588 
1.2 
1442 
0.0 
1491 
0.0 
1540 
44.2 
1589 
0.0 
1443 
0.0 
1492 
0.0 
1541 
43.6 
1590 
0.0 
1444 
0.0 
1493 
0.0 
1542 
43.1 
1591 
0.0 
1445 
0.0 
1494 
0.0 
1543 
42.8 
1592 
0.0 
1446 
0.0 
1495 
0.0 
1544 
42.7 
1593 
0.0 
1447 
0.0 
1496 
0.0 
1545 
42.8 
1594 
0.0 
1448 
0.0 
1497 
0.0 
1546 
43.3 
1595 
0.0 
1449 
0.0 
1498 
0.0 
1547 
43.9 
1596 
0.0 
1450 
0.0 
1499 
0.0 
1548 
44.6 
1597 
0.0 
1451 
0.0 
1500 
0.0 
1549 
45.4 
1598 
0.0 
1452 
0.0 
1501 
0.0 
1550 
46.3 
1599 
0.0 
1453 
0.0 
1502 
0.0 
1551 
47.2 
1600 
0.0 
1454 
0.0 
1503 
1.6 
1552 
47.8 
1601 
0.0 
1455 
0.0 
1504 
3.1 
1553 
48.2 
1602 
0.0 
1603 
0.0   
  
  
  
  
  
1604 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1605 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1606 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1607 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1608 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1609 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1610 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1611 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 110 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 110 of 762 
 
5.0 
WLTC Class 2 Cycle  
 
Figure A1/3 
WLTC, Class 2 cycle, phase Low2 
 
 
 
Figure A1/4 
WLTC, Class 2 cycle, phase Medium2 
 
 
Figure A1/5 
WLTC, Class 2 cycle, phase High2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 111 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 111 of 762 
 
 
Table A1/3 
WLTC, Class 2 cycle, phase Low2 (Second 589 is the end of phase Low1 and the start of 
phase Medium1) 
Time 
in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in 
s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
0 
0.0 
47 
11.6 
94 
0.0 
141 
36.8 
1 
0.0 
48 
12.4 
95 
0.0 
142 
35.1 
2 
0.0 
49 
13.2 
96 
0.0 
143 
32.2 
3 
0.0 
50 
14.2 
97 
0.0 
144 
31.1 
4 
0.0 
51 
14.8 
98 
0.0 
145 
30.8 
5 
0.0 
52 
14.7 
99 
0.0 
146 
29.7 
6 
0.0 
53 
14.4 
100 
0.0 
147 
29.4 
7 
0.0 
54 
14.1 
101 
0.0 
148 
29.0 
8 
0.0 
55 
13.6 
102 
0.0 
149 
28.5 
9 
0.0 
56 
13.0 
103 
0.0 
150 
26.0 
10 
0.0 
57 
12.4 
104 
0.0 
151 
23.4 
11 
0.0 
58 
11.8 
105 
0.0 
152 
20.7 
12 
0.0 
59 
11.2 
106 
0.0 
153 
17.4 
13 
1.2 
60 
10.6 
107 
0.8 
154 
15.2 
14 
2.6 
61 
9.9 
108 
1.4 
155 
13.5 
15 
4.9 
62 
9.0 
109 
2.3 
156 
13.0 
16 
7.3 
63 
8.2 
110 
3.5 
157 
12.4 
17 
9.4 
64 
7.0 
111 
4.7 
158 
12.3 
18 
11.4 
65 
4.8 
112 
5.9 
159 
12.2 
19 
12.7 
66 
2.3 
113 
7.4 
160 
12.3 
20 
13.3 
67 
0.0 
114 
9.2 
161 
12.4 
21 
13.4 
68 
0.0 
115 
11.7 
162 
12.5 
22 
13.3 
69 
0.0 
116 
13.5 
163 
12.7 
23 
13.1 
70 
0.0 
117 
15.0 
164 
12.8 
24 
12.5 
71 
0.0 
118 
16.2 
165 
13.2 
25 
11.1 
72 
0.0 
119 
16.8 
166 
14.3 
26 
8.9 
73 
0.0 
120 
17.5 
167 
16.5 
27 
6.2 
74 
0.0 
121 
18.8 
168 
19.4 
28 
3.8 
75 
0.0 
122 
20.3 
169 
21.7 
29 
1.8 
76 
0.0 
123 
22.0 
170 
23.1 
30 
0.0 
77 
0.0 
124 
23.6 
171 
23.5 
31 
0.0 
78 
0.0 
125 
24.8 
172 
24.2 
32 
0.0 
79 
0.0 
126 
25.6 
173 
24.8 
33 
0.0 
80 
0.0 
127 
26.3 
174 
25.4 
34 
1.5 
81 
0.0 
128 
27.2 
175 
25.8 
35 
2.8 
82 
0.0 
129 
28.3 
176 
26.5 
36 
3.6 
83 
0.0 
130 
29.6 
177 
27.2 
37 
4.5 
84 
0.0 
131 
30.9 
178 
28.3 
38 
5.3 
85 
0.0 
132 
32.2 
179 
29.9 
39 
6.0 
86 
0.0 
133 
33.4 
180 
32.4 
40 
6.6 
87 
0.0 
134 
35.1 
181 
35.1 
41 
7.3 
88 
0.0 
135 
37.2 
182 
37.5 
42 
7.9 
89 
0.0 
136 
38.7 
183 
39.2 



--- PAGE 112 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 112 of 762 
 
Table A1/3 
WLTC, Class 2 cycle, phase Low2 (Second 589 is the end of phase Low1 and the start of 
phase Medium1) 
Time 
in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in 
s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
43 
8.6 
90 
0.0 
137 
39.0 
184 
40.5 
44 
9.3 
91 
0.0 
138 
40.1 
185 
41.4 
45 
10 
92 
0.0 
139 
40.4 
186 
42.0 
46 
10.8 
93 
0.0 
140 
39.7 
187 
42.5 
188 
43.2 
237 
33.5 
286 
32.5 
335 
25.0 
189 
44.4 
238 
35.8 
287 
30.9 
336 
24.6 
190 
45.9 
239 
37.6 
288 
28.6 
337 
23.9 
191 
47.6 
240 
38.8 
289 
25.9 
338 
23.0 
192 
49.0 
241 
39.6 
290 
23.1 
339 
21.8 
193 
50.0 
242 
40.1 
291 
20.1 
340 
20.7 
194 
50.2 
243 
40.9 
292 
17.3 
341 
19.6 
195 
50.1 
244 
41.8 
293 
15.1 
342 
18.7 
196 
49.8 
245 
43.3 
294 
13.7 
343 
18.1 
197 
49.4 
246 
44.7 
295 
13.4 
344 
17.5 
198 
48.9 
247 
46.4 
296 
13.9 
345 
16.7 
199 
48.5 
248 
47.9 
297 
15.0 
346 
15.4 
200 
48.3 
249 
49.6 
298 
16.3 
347 
13.6 
201 
48.2 
250 
49.6 
299 
17.4 
348 
11.2 
202 
47.9 
251 
48.8 
300 
18.2 
349 
8.6 
203 
47.1 
252 
48.0 
301 
18.6 
350 
6.0 
204 
45.5 
253 
47.5 
302 
19.0 
351 
3.1 
205 
43.2 
254 
47.1 
303 
19.4 
352 
1.2 
206 
40.6 
255 
46.9 
304 
19.8 
353 
0.0 
207 
38.5 
256 
45.8 
305 
20.1 
354 
0.0 
208 
36.9 
257 
45.8 
306 
20.5 
355 
0.0 
209 
35.9 
258 
45.8 
307 
20.2 
356 
0.0 
210 
35.3 
259 
45.9 
308 
18.6 
357 
0.0 
211 
34.8 
260 
46.2 
309 
16.5 
358 
0.0 
212 
34.5 
261 
46.4 
310 
14.4 
359 
0.0 
213 
34.2 
262 
46.6 
311 
13.4 
360 
1.4 
214 
34.0 
263 
46.8 
312 
12.9 
361 
3.2 
215 
33.8 
264 
47.0 
313 
12.7 
362 
5.6 
216 
33.6 
265 
47.3 
314 
12.4 
363 
8.1 
217 
33.5 
266 
47.5 
315 
12.4 
364 
10.3 
218 
33.5 
267 
47.9 
316 
12.8 
365 
12.1 
219 
33.4 
268 
48.3 
317 
14.1 
366 
12.6 
220 
33.3 
269 
48.3 
318 
16.2 
367 
13.6 
221 
33.3 
270 
48.2 
319 
18.8 
368 
14.5 
222 
33.2 
271 
48.0 
320 
21.9 
369 
15.6 
223 
33.1 
272 
47.7 
321 
25.0 
370 
16.8 
224 
33.0 
273 
47.2 
322 
28.4 
371 
18.2 
225 
32.9 
274 
46.5 
323 
31.3 
372 
19.6 
226 
32.8 
275 
45.2 
324 
34.0 
373 
20.9 
227 
32.7 
276 
43.7 
325 
34.6 
374 
22.3 



--- PAGE 113 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 113 of 762 
 
Table A1/3 
WLTC, Class 2 cycle, phase Low2 (Second 589 is the end of phase Low1 and the start of 
phase Medium1) 
Time 
in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in 
s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
228 
32.5 
277 
42.0 
326 
33.9 
375 
23.8 
229 
32.3 
278 
40.4 
327 
31.9 
376 
25.4 
230 
31.8 
279 
39.0 
328 
30.0 
377 
27.0 
231 
31.4 
280 
37.7 
329 
29.0 
378 
28.6 
232 
30.9 
281 
36.4 
330 
27.9 
379 
30.2 
233 
30.6 
282 
35.2 
331 
27.1 
380 
31.2 
234 
30.6 
283 
34.3 
332 
26.4 
381 
31.2 
235 
30.7 
284 
33.8 
333 
25.9 
382 
30.7 
236 
32.0 
285 
33.3 
334 
25.5 
383 
29.5 
384 
28.6 
433 
0.0 
482 
2.5 
531 
26.0 
385 
27.7 
434 
0.0 
483 
5.2 
532 
26.5 
386 
26.9 
435 
0.0 
484 
7.9 
533 
26.9 
387 
26.1 
436 
0.0 
485 
10.3 
534 
27.3 
388 
25.4 
437 
0.0 
486 
12.7 
535 
27.9 
389 
24.6 
438 
0.0 
487 
15.0 
536 
30.3 
390 
23.6 
439 
0.0 
488 
17.4 
537 
33.2 
391 
22.6 
440 
0.0 
489 
19.7 
538 
35.4 
392 
21.7 
441 
0.0 
490 
21.9 
539 
38.0 
393 
20.7 
442 
0.0 
491 
24.1 
540 
40.1 
394 
19.8 
443 
0.0 
492 
26.2 
541 
42.7 
395 
18.8 
444 
0.0 
493 
28.1 
542 
44.5 
396 
17.7 
445 
0.0 
494 
29.7 
543 
46.3 
397 
16.6 
446 
0.0 
495 
31.3 
544 
47.6 
398 
15.6 
447 
0.0 
496 
33.0 
545 
48.8 
399 
14.8 
448 
0.0 
497 
34.7 
546 
49.7 
400 
14.3 
449 
0.0 
498 
36.3 
547 
50.6 
401 
13.8 
450 
0.0 
499 
38.1 
548 
51.4 
402 
13.4 
451 
0.0 
500 
39.4 
549 
51.4 
403 
13.1 
452 
0.0 
501 
40.4 
550 
50.2 
404 
12.8 
453 
0.0 
502 
41.2 
551 
47.1 
405 
12.3 
454 
0.0 
503 
42.1 
552 
44.5 
406 
11.6 
455 
0.0 
504 
43.2 
553 
41.5 
407 
10.5 
456 
0.0 
505 
44.3 
554 
38.5 
408 
9.0 
457 
0.0 
506 
45.7 
555 
35.5 
409 
7.2 
458 
0.0 
507 
45.4 
556 
32.5 
410 
5.2 
459 
0.0 
508 
44.5 
557 
29.5 
411 
2.9 
460 
0.0 
509 
42.5 
558 
26.5 
412 
1.2 
461 
0.0 
510 
39.5 
559 
23.5 
413 
0.0 
462 
0.0 
511 
36.5 
560 
20.4 
414 
0.0 
463 
0.0 
512 
33.5 
561 
17.5 
415 
0.0 
464 
0.0 
513 
30.4 
562 
14.5 
416 
0.0 
465 
0.0 
514 
27.0 
563 
11.5 
417 
0.0 
466 
0.0 
515 
23.6 
564 
8.5 
418 
0.0 
467 
0.0 
516 
21.0 
565 
5.6 



--- PAGE 114 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 114 of 762 
 
Table A1/3 
WLTC, Class 2 cycle, phase Low2 (Second 589 is the end of phase Low1 and the start of 
phase Medium1) 
Time 
in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in 
s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
419 
0.0 
468 
0.0 
517 
19.5 
566 
2.6 
420 
0.0 
469 
0.0 
518 
17.6 
567 
0.0 
421 
0.0 
470 
0.0 
519 
16.1 
568 
0.0 
422 
0.0 
471 
0.0 
520 
14.5 
569 
0.0 
423 
0.0 
472 
0.0 
521 
13.5 
570 
0.0 
424 
0.0 
473 
0.0 
522 
13.7 
571 
0.0 
425 
0.0 
474 
0.0 
523 
16.0 
572 
0.0 
426 
0.0 
475 
0.0 
524 
18.1 
573 
0.0 
427 
0.0 
476 
0.0 
525 
20.8 
574 
0.0 
428 
0.0 
477 
0.0 
526 
21.5 
575 
0.0 
429 
0.0 
478 
0.0 
527 
22.5 
576 
0.0 
430 
0.0 
479 
0.0 
528 
23.4 
577 
0.0 
431 
0.0 
480 
0.0 
529 
24.5 
578 
0.0 
432 
0.0 
481 
1.4 
530 
25.6 
579 
0.0 
580 
0.0   
  
  
  
  
  
581 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
582 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
583 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
584 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
585 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
586 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
587 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
588 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
589 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 115 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 115 of 762 
 
Table A1/4 
WLTC, Class 2 cycle, phase Medium2 (The start of this phase is at second 589) 
Time 
in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in 
s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed in km/h 
590 
0.0 
637 
38.6 
684 
59.3 
731 
55.3 
591 
0.0 
638 
39.8 
685 
60.2 
732 
55.1 
592 
0.0 
639 
40.6 
686 
61.3 
733 
54.8 
593 
0.0 
640 
41.1 
687 
62.4 
734 
54.6 
594 
0.0 
641 
41.9 
688 
63.4 
735 
54.5 
595 
0.0 
642 
42.8 
689 
64.4 
736 
54.3 
596 
0.0 
643 
44.3 
690 
65.4 
737 
53.9 
597 
0.0 
644 
45.7 
691 
66.3 
738 
53.4 
598 
0.0 
645 
47.4 
692 
67.2 
739 
52.6 
599 
0.0 
646 
48.9 
693 
68.0 
740 
51.5 
600 
0.0 
647 
50.6 
694 
68.8 
741 
50.2 
601 
1.6 
648 
52.0 
695 
69.5 
742 
48.7 
602 
3.6 
649 
53.7 
696 
70.1 
743 
47.0 
603 
6.3 
650 
55.0 
697 
70.6 
744 
45.1 
604 
9.0 
651 
56.8 
698 
71.0 
745 
43.0 
605 
11.8 
652 
58.0 
699 
71.6 
746 
40.6 
606 
14.2 
653 
59.8 
700 
72.2 
747 
38.1 
607 
16.6 
654 
61.1 
701 
72.8 
748 
35.4 
608 
18.5 
655 
62.4 
702 
73.5 
749 
32.7 
609 
20.8 
656 
63.0 
703 
74.1 
750 
30.0 
610 
23.4 
657 
63.5 
704 
74.3 
751 
27.5 
611 
26.9 
658 
63.0 
705 
74.3 
752 
25.3 
612 
30.3 
659 
62.0 
706 
73.7 
753 
23.4 
613 
32.8 
660 
60.4 
707 
71.9 
754 
22.0 
614 
34.1 
661 
58.6 
708 
70.5 
755 
20.8 
615 
34.2 
662 
56.7 
709 
68.9 
756 
19.8 
616 
33.6 
663 
55.0 
710 
67.4 
757 
18.9 
617 
32.1 
664 
53.7 
711 
66.0 
758 
18.0 
618 
30.0 
665 
52.7 
712 
64.7 
759 
17.0 
619 
27.5 
666 
51.9 
713 
63.7 
760 
16.1 
620 
25.1 
667 
51.4 
714 
62.9 
761 
15.5 
621 
22.8 
668 
51.0 
715 
62.2 
762 
14.4 
622 
20.5 
669 
50.7 
716 
61.7 
763 
14.9 
623 
17.9 
670 
50.6 
717 
61.2 
764 
15.9 
624 
15.1 
671 
50.8 
718 
60.7 
765 
17.1 
625 
13.4 
672 
51.2 
719 
60.3 
766 
18.3 
626 
12.8 
673 
51.7 
720 
59.9 
767 
19.4 
627 
13.7 
674 
52.3 
721 
59.6 
768 
20.4 
628 
16.0 
675 
53.1 
722 
59.3 
769 
21.2 
629 
18.1 
676 
53.8 
723 
59.0 
770 
21.9 
630 
20.8 
677 
54.5 
724 
58.6 
771 
22.7 
631 
23.7 
678 
55.1 
725 
58.0 
772 
23.4 
632 
26.5 
679 
55.9 
726 
57.5 
773 
24.2 
633 
29.3 
680 
56.5 
727 
56.9 
774 
24.3 
634 
32.0 
681 
57.1 
728 
56.3 
775 
24.2 



--- PAGE 116 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 116 of 762 
 
Table A1/4 
WLTC, Class 2 cycle, phase Medium2 (The start of this phase is at second 589) 
Time 
in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in 
s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed in km/h 
635 
34.5 
682 
57.8 
729 
55.9 
776 
24.1 
636 
36.8 
683 
58.5 
730 
55.6 
777 
23.8 
778 
23.0 
827 
59.9 
876 
46.9 
925 
49.0 
779 
22.6 
828 
60.7 
877 
47.1 
926 
48.5 
780 
21.7 
829 
61.4 
878 
47.5 
927 
48.0 
781 
21.3 
830 
62.0 
879 
47.8 
928 
47.5 
782 
20.3 
831 
62.5 
880 
48.3 
929 
47.0 
783 
19.1 
832 
62.9 
881 
48.8 
930 
46.9 
784 
18.1 
833 
63.2 
882 
49.5 
931 
46.8 
785 
16.9 
834 
63.4 
883 
50.2 
932 
46.8 
786 
16.0 
835 
63.7 
884 
50.8 
933 
46.8 
787 
14.8 
836 
64.0 
885 
51.4 
934 
46.9 
788 
14.5 
837 
64.4 
886 
51.8 
935 
46.9 
789 
13.7 
838 
64.9 
887 
51.9 
936 
46.9 
790 
13.5 
839 
65.5 
888 
51.7 
937 
46.9 
791 
12.9 
840 
66.2 
889 
51.2 
938 
46.9 
792 
12.7 
841 
67.0 
890 
50.4 
939 
46.8 
793 
12.5 
842 
67.8 
891 
49.2 
940 
46.6 
794 
12.5 
843 
68.6 
892 
47.7 
941 
46.4 
795 
12.6 
844 
69.4 
893 
46.3 
942 
46.0 
796 
13.0 
845 
70.1 
894 
45.1 
943 
45.5 
797 
13.6 
846 
70.9 
895 
44.2 
944 
45.0 
798 
14.6 
847 
71.7 
896 
43.7 
945 
44.5 
799 
15.7 
848 
72.5 
897 
43.4 
946 
44.2 
800 
17.1 
849 
73.2 
898 
43.1 
947 
43.9 
801 
18.7 
850 
73.8 
899 
42.5 
948 
43.7 
802 
20.2 
851 
74.4 
900 
41.8 
949 
43.6 
803 
21.9 
852 
74.7 
901 
41.1 
950 
43.6 
804 
23.6 
853 
74.7 
902 
40.3 
951 
43.5 
805 
25.4 
854 
74.6 
903 
39.7 
952 
43.5 
806 
27.1 
855 
74.2 
904 
39.3 
953 
43.4 
807 
28.9 
856 
73.5 
905 
39.2 
954 
43.3 
808 
30.4 
857 
72.6 
906 
39.3 
955 
43.1 
809 
32.0 
858 
71.8 
907 
39.6 
956 
42.9 
810 
33.4 
859 
71.0 
908 
40.0 
957 
42.7 
811 
35.0 
860 
70.1 
909 
40.7 
958 
42.5 
812 
36.4 
861 
69.4 
910 
41.4 
959 
42.4 
813 
38.1 
862 
68.9 
911 
42.2 
960 
42.2 
814 
39.7 
863 
68.4 
912 
43.1 
961 
42.1 
815 
41.6 
864 
67.9 
913 
44.1 
962 
42.0 
816 
43.3 
865 
67.1 
914 
44.9 
963 
41.8 
817 
45.1 
866 
65.8 
915 
45.6 
964 
41.7 
818 
46.9 
867 
63.9 
916 
46.4 
965 
41.5 
819 
48.7 
868 
61.4 
917 
47.0 
966 
41.3 
820 
50.5 
869 
58.4 
918 
47.8 
967 
41.1 



--- PAGE 117 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 117 of 762 
 
Table A1/4 
WLTC, Class 2 cycle, phase Medium2 (The start of this phase is at second 589) 
Time 
in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in 
s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed in km/h 
821 
52.4 
870 
55.4 
919 
48.3 
968 
40.8 
822 
54.1 
871 
52.4 
920 
48.9 
969 
40.3 
823 
55.7 
872 
50.0 
921 
49.4 
970 
39.6 
824 
56.8 
873 
48.3 
922 
49.8 
971 
38.5 
825 
57.9 
874 
47.3 
923 
49.6 
972 
37.0 
826 
59.0 
875 
46.8 
924 
49.3 
973 
35.1 
974 
33.0  
 
 
 
 
 
975 
30.6  
 
 
 
 
 
976 
27.9  
 
 
 
 
 
977 
25.1  
 
 
 
 
 
978 
22.0  
 
 
 
 
 
979 
18.8  
 
 
 
 
 
980 
15.5  
 
 
 
 
 
981 
12.3  
 
 
 
 
 
982 
8.8  
 
 
 
 
 
983 
6.0  
 
 
 
 
 
984 
3.6  
 
 
 
 
 
985 
1.6  
 
 
 
 
 
986 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
987 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
988 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
989 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
990 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
991 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
992 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
993 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
994 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
995 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
996 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
997 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
998 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
999 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1000 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1001 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1002 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1003 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1004 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1005 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1006 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1007 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1008 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1009 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1010 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1011 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1012 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 118 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 118 of 762 
 
Table A1/4 
WLTC, Class 2 cycle, phase Medium2 (The start of this phase is at second 589) 
Time 
in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in 
s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed in km/h 
1013 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1014 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1015 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1016 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1017 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1018 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1019 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1020 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1021 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1022 
0.0   
  
  
  
  
  
 
Table A1/5 
WLTC, Class 2 cycle, phase High2 (Second 1022 is the end of phase Medium2 and the 
start of phase High2) 
Time 
in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in 
s 
Speed in km/h 
1023 
0.0 
1070 
46.0 
1117 
73.9 
1164 
71.7 
1024 
0.0 
1071 
46.4 
1118 
74.9 
1165 
69.9 
1025 
0.0 
1072 
47.0 
1119 
75.7 
1166 
67.9 
1026 
0.0 
1073 
47.4 
1120 
76.4 
1167 
65.7 
1027 
1.1 
1074 
48.0 
1121 
77.1 
1168 
63.5 
1028 
3.0 
1075 
48.4 
1122 
77.6 
1169 
61.2 
1029 
5.7 
1076 
49.0 
1123 
78.0 
1170 
59.0 
1030 
8.4 
1077 
49.4 
1124 
78.2 
1171 
56.8 
1031 
11.1 
1078 
50.0 
1125 
78.4 
1172 
54.7 
1032 
14.0 
1079 
50.4 
1126 
78.5 
1173 
52.7 
1033 
17.0 
1080 
50.8 
1127 
78.5 
1174 
50.9 
1034 
20.1 
1081 
51.1 
1128 
78.6 
1175 
49.4 
1035 
22.7 
1082 
51.3 
1129 
78.7 
1176 
48.1 
1036 
23.6 
1083 
51.3 
1130 
78.9 
1177 
47.1 
1037 
24.5 
1084 
51.3 
1131 
79.1 
1178 
46.5 
1038 
24.8 
1085 
51.3 
1132 
79.4 
1179 
46.3 
1039 
25.1 
1086 
51.3 
1133 
79.8 
1180 
46.5 
1040 
25.3 
1087 
51.3 
1134 
80.1 
1181 
47.2 
1041 
25.5 
1088 
51.3 
1135 
80.5 
1182 
48.3 
1042 
25.7 
1089 
51.4 
1136 
80.8 
1183 
49.7 
1043 
25.8 
1090 
51.6 
1137 
81.0 
1184 
51.3 
1044 
25.9 
1091 
51.8 
1138 
81.2 
1185 
53.0 
1045 
26.0 
1092 
52.1 
1139 
81.3 
1186 
54.9 
1046 
26.1 
1093 
52.3 
1140 
81.2 
1187 
56.7 
1047 
26.3 
1094 
52.6 
1141 
81.0 
1188 
58.6 
1048 
26.5 
1095 
52.8 
1142 
80.6 
1189 
60.2 
1049 
26.8 
1096 
52.9 
1143 
80.0 
1190 
61.6 
1050 
27.1 
1097 
53.0 
1144 
79.1 
1191 
62.2 



--- PAGE 119 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 119 of 762 
 
Table A1/5 
WLTC, Class 2 cycle, phase High2 (Second 1022 is the end of phase Medium2 and the 
start of phase High2) 
Time 
in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in 
s 
Speed in km/h 
1051 
27.5 
1098 
53.0 
1145 
78.0 
1192 
62.5 
1052 
28.0 
1099 
53.0 
1146 
76.8 
1193 
62.8 
1053 
28.6 
1100 
53.1 
1147 
75.5 
1194 
62.9 
1054 
29.3 
1101 
53.2 
1148 
74.1 
1195 
63.0 
1055 
30.4 
1102 
53.3 
1149 
72.9 
1196 
63.0 
1056 
31.8 
1103 
53.4 
1150 
71.9 
1197 
63.1 
1057 
33.7 
1104 
53.5 
1151 
71.2 
1198 
63.2 
1058 
35.8 
1105 
53.7 
1152 
70.9 
1199 
63.3 
1059 
37.8 
1106 
55.0 
1153 
71.0 
1200 
63.5 
1060 
39.5 
1107 
56.8 
1154 
71.5 
1201 
63.7 
1061 
40.8 
1108 
58.8 
1155 
72.3 
1202 
63.9 
1062 
41.8 
1109 
60.9 
1156 
73.2 
1203 
64.1 
1063 
42.4 
1110 
63.0 
1157 
74.1 
1204 
64.3 
1064 
43.0 
1111 
65.0 
1158 
74.9 
1205 
66.1 
1065 
43.4 
1112 
66.9 
1159 
75.4 
1206 
67.9 
1066 
44.0 
1113 
68.6 
1160 
75.5 
1207 
69.7 
1067 
44.4 
1114 
70.1 
1161 
75.2 
1208 
71.4 
1068 
45.0 
1115 
71.5 
1162 
74.5 
1209 
73.1 
1069 
45.4 
1116 
72.8 
1163 
73.3 
1210 
74.7 
1211 
76.2 
1260 
35.4 
1309 
72.3 
1358 
70.8 
1212 
77.5 
1261 
32.7 
1310 
71.9 
1359 
70.8 
1213 
78.6 
1262 
30.0 
1311 
71.3 
1360 
70.9 
1214 
79.7 
1263 
29.9 
1312 
70.9 
1361 
70.9 
1215 
80.6 
1264 
30.0 
1313 
70.5 
1362 
70.9 
1216 
81.5 
1265 
30.2 
1314 
70.0 
1363 
70.9 
1217 
82.2 
1266 
30.4 
1315 
69.6 
1364 
71.0 
1218 
83.0 
1267 
30.6 
1316 
69.2 
1365 
71.0 
1219 
83.7 
1268 
31.6 
1317 
68.8 
1366 
71.1 
1220 
84.4 
1269 
33.0 
1318 
68.4 
1367 
71.2 
1221 
84.9 
1270 
33.9 
1319 
67.9 
1368 
71.3 
1222 
85.1 
1271 
34.8 
1320 
67.5 
1369 
71.4 
1223 
85.2 
1272 
35.7 
1321 
67.2 
1370 
71.5 
1224 
84.9 
1273 
36.6 
1322 
66.8 
1371 
71.7 
1225 
84.4 
1274 
37.5 
1323 
65.6 
1372 
71.8 
1226 
83.6 
1275 
38.4 
1324 
63.3 
1373 
71.9 
1227 
82.7 
1276 
39.3 
1325 
60.2 
1374 
71.9 
1228 
81.5 
1277 
40.2 
1326 
56.2 
1375 
71.9 
1229 
80.1 
1278 
40.8 
1327 
52.2 
1376 
71.9 
1230 
78.7 
1279 
41.7 
1328 
48.4 
1377 
71.9 
1231 
77.4 
1280 
42.4 
1329 
45.0 
1378 
71.9 
1232 
76.2 
1281 
43.1 
1330 
41.6 
1379 
71.9 
1233 
75.4 
1282 
43.6 
1331 
38.6 
1380 
72.0 
1234 
74.8 
1283 
44.2 
1332 
36.4 
1381 
72.1 
1235 
74.3 
1284 
44.8 
1333 
34.8 
1382 
72.4 



--- PAGE 120 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 120 of 762 
 
Table A1/5 
WLTC, Class 2 cycle, phase High2 (Second 1022 is the end of phase Medium2 and the 
start of phase High2) 
Time 
in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in 
s 
Speed in km/h 
1236 
73.8 
1285 
45.5 
1334 
34.2 
1383 
72.7 
1237 
73.2 
1286 
46.3 
1335 
34.7 
1384 
73.1 
1238 
72.4 
1287 
47.2 
1336 
36.3 
1385 
73.4 
1239 
71.6 
1288 
48.1 
1337 
38.5 
1386 
73.8 
1240 
70.8 
1289 
49.1 
1338 
41.0 
1387 
74.0 
1241 
69.9 
1290 
50.0 
1339 
43.7 
1388 
74.1 
1242 
67.9 
1291 
51.0 
1340 
46.5 
1389 
74.0 
1243 
65.7 
1292 
51.9 
1341 
49.1 
1390 
73.0 
1244 
63.5 
1293 
52.7 
1342 
51.6 
1391 
72.0 
1245 
61.2 
1294 
53.7 
1343 
53.9 
1392 
71.0 
1246 
59.0 
1295 
55.0 
1344 
56.0 
1393 
70.0 
1247 
56.8 
1296 
56.8 
1345 
57.9 
1394 
69.0 
1248 
54.7 
1297 
58.8 
1346 
59.7 
1395 
68.0 
1249 
52.7 
1298 
60.9 
1347 
61.2 
1396 
67.7 
1250 
50.9 
1299 
63.0 
1348 
62.5 
1397 
66.7 
1251 
49.4 
1300 
65.0 
1349 
63.5 
1398 
66.6 
1252 
48.1 
1301 
66.9 
1350 
64.3 
1399 
66.7 
1253 
47.1 
1302 
68.6 
1351 
65.3 
1400 
66.8 
1254 
46.5 
1303 
70.1 
1352 
66.3 
1401 
66.9 
1255 
46.3 
1304 
71.0 
1353 
67.3 
1402 
66.9 
1256 
45.1 
1305 
71.8 
1354 
68.3 
1403 
66.9 
1257 
43.0 
1306 
72.8 
1355 
69.3 
1404 
66.9 
1258 
40.6 
1307 
72.9 
1356 
70.3 
1405 
66.9 
1259 
38.1 
1308 
73.0 
1357 
70.8 
1406 
66.9 
1407 
66.9 
1456 
0.0  
 
 
 
1408 
67.0 
1457 
0.0  
 
 
 
1409 
67.1 
1458 
0.0  
 
 
 
1410 
67.3 
1459 
0.0  
 
 
 
1411 
67.5 
1460 
0.0  
 
 
 
1412 
67.8 
1461 
0.0  
 
 
 
1413 
68.2 
1462 
0.0  
 
 
 
1414 
68.6 
1463 
0.0  
 
 
 
1415 
69.0 
1464 
0.0  
 
 
 
1416 
69.3 
1465 
0.0  
 
 
 
1417 
69.3 
1466 
0.0  
 
 
 
1418 
69.2 
1467 
0.0  
 
 
 
1419 
68.8 
1468 
0.0  
 
 
 
1420 
68.2 
1469 
0.0  
 
 
 
1421 
67.6 
1470 
0.0  
 
 
 
1422 
67.4 
1471 
0.0  
 
 
 
1423 
67.2 
1472 
0.0  
 
 
 
1424 
66.9 
1473 
0.0  
 
 
 
1425 
66.3 
1474 
0.0  
 
 
 
1426 
65.4 
1475 
0.0  
 
 
 



--- PAGE 121 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 121 of 762 
 
Table A1/5 
WLTC, Class 2 cycle, phase High2 (Second 1022 is the end of phase Medium2 and the 
start of phase High2) 
Time 
in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in 
s 
Speed in km/h 
1427 
64.0 
1476 
0.0  
 
 
 
1428 
62.4 
1477 
0.0  
 
 
 
1429 
60.6  
 
 
 
 
 
1430 
58.6  
 
 
 
 
 
1431 
56.7  
 
 
 
 
 
1432 
54.8  
 
 
 
 
 
1433 
53.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1434 
51.3  
 
 
 
 
 
1435 
49.6  
 
 
 
 
 
1436 
47.8  
 
 
 
 
 
1437 
45.5  
 
 
 
 
 
1438 
42.8  
 
 
 
 
 
1439 
39.8  
 
 
 
 
 
1440 
36.5  
 
 
 
 
 
1441 
33.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1442 
29.5  
 
 
 
 
 
1443 
25.8  
 
 
 
 
 
1444 
22.1  
 
 
 
 
 
1445 
18.6  
 
 
 
 
 
1446 
15.3  
 
 
 
 
 
1447 
12.4  
 
 
 
 
 
1448 
9.6  
 
 
 
 
 
1449 
6.6  
 
 
 
 
 
1450 
3.8  
 
 
 
 
 
1451 
1.6  
 
 
 
 
 
1452 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1453 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1454 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1455 
0.0   
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 122 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 122 of 762 
 
6.0 
WTLC Class 3 Cycle  
Figure A1/7 
WLTC, Class 3 cycle, phase Low3 
 
Figure A1/8 
WLTC, Class 3a cycle, phase Medium3a 
 
Figure A1/9 
WLTC, Class 3b cycle, phase Medium3b 
 



--- PAGE 123 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 123 of 762 
 
 
Figure A1/10 
WLTC, Class 3a cycle, phase High3a 
 
 
Figure A1/11 
WLTC, Class 3b cycle, phase High3b 
 
 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 124 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 124 of 762 
 
Table A1/7 
WLTC, Class 3 cycle, phase Low3 (Second 589 is the end of phase Low3 and the start 
of phase Medium3) 
Time 
in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed in km/h 
0 
0.0 
47 
19.5 
94 
12.0 
141 
11.7 
1 
0.0 
48 
18.4 
95 
9.1 
142 
16.4 
2 
0.0 
49 
17.8 
96 
5.8 
143 
18.9 
3 
0.0 
50 
17.8 
97 
3.6 
144 
19.9 
4 
0.0 
51 
17.4 
98 
2.2 
145 
20.8 
5 
0.0 
52 
15.7 
99 
0.0 
146 
22.8 
6 
0.0 
53 
13.1 
100 
0.0 
147 
25.4 
7 
0.0 
54 
12.1 
101 
0.0 
148 
27.7 
8 
0.0 
55 
12.0 
102 
0.0 
149 
29.2 
9 
0.0 
56 
12.0 
103 
0.0 
150 
29.8 
10 
0.0 
57 
12.0 
104 
0.0 
151 
29.4 
11 
0.0 
58 
12.3 
105 
0.0 
152 
27.2 
12 
0.2 
59 
12.6 
106 
0.0 
153 
22.6 
13 
1.7 
60 
14.7 
107 
0.0 
154 
17.3 
14 
5.4 
61 
15.3 
108 
0.0 
155 
13.3 
15 
9.9 
62 
15.9 
109 
0.0 
156 
12.0 
16 
13.1 
63 
16.2 
110 
0.0 
157 
12.6 
17 
16.9 
64 
17.1 
111 
0.0 
158 
14.1 
18 
21.7 
65 
17.8 
112 
0.0 
159 
17.2 
19 
26.0 
66 
18.1 
113 
0.0 
160 
20.1 
20 
27.5 
67 
18.4 
114 
0.0 
161 
23.4 
21 
28.1 
68 
20.3 
115 
0.0 
162 
25.5 
22 
28.3 
69 
23.2 
116 
0.0 
163 
27.6 
23 
28.8 
70 
26.5 
117 
0.0 
164 
29.5 
24 
29.1 
71 
29.8 
118 
0.0 
165 
31.1 
25 
30.8 
72 
32.6 
119 
0.0 
166 
32.1 
26 
31.9 
73 
34.4 
120 
0.0 
167 
33.2 
27 
34.1 
74 
35.5 
121 
0.0 
168 
35.2 
28 
36.6 
75 
36.4 
122 
0.0 
169 
37.2 
29 
39.1 
76 
37.4 
123 
0.0 
170 
38.0 
30 
41.3 
77 
38.5 
124 
0.0 
171 
37.4 
31 
42.5 
78 
39.3 
125 
0.0 
172 
35.1 
32 
43.3 
79 
39.5 
126 
0.0 
173 
31.0 
33 
43.9 
80 
39.0 
127 
0.0 
174 
27.1 
34 
44.4 
81 
38.5 
128 
0.0 
175 
25.3 
35 
44.5 
82 
37.3 
129 
0.0 
176 
25.1 
36 
44.2 
83 
37.0 
130 
0.0 
177 
25.9 
37 
42.7 
84 
36.7 
131 
0.0 
178 
27.8 
38 
39.9 
85 
35.9 
132 
0.0 
179 
29.2 
39 
37.0 
86 
35.3 
133 
0.0 
180 
29.6 
40 
34.6 
87 
34.6 
134 
0.0 
181 
29.5 
41 
32.3 
88 
34.2 
135 
0.0 
182 
29.2 
42 
29.0 
89 
31.9 
136 
0.0 
183 
28.3 
43 
25.1 
90 
27.3 
137 
0.0 
184 
26.1 



--- PAGE 125 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 125 of 762 
 
Table A1/7 
WLTC, Class 3 cycle, phase Low3 (Second 589 is the end of phase Low3 and the start 
of phase Medium3) 
Time 
in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed in km/h 
44 
22.2 
91 
22.0 
138 
0.2 
185 
23.6 
45 
20.9 
92 
17.0 
139 
1.9 
186 
21.0 
46 
20.4 
93 
14.2 
140 
6.1 
187 
18.9 
188 
17.1 
237 
49.2 
286 
37.4 
335 
15.0 
189 
15.7 
238 
48.4 
287 
40.7 
336 
14.5 
190 
14.5 
239 
46.9 
288 
44.0 
337 
14.3 
191 
13.7 
240 
44.3 
289 
47.3 
338 
14.5 
192 
12.9 
241 
41.5 
290 
49.2 
339 
15.4 
193 
12.5 
242 
39.5 
291 
49.8 
340 
17.8 
194 
12.2 
243 
37.0 
292 
49.2 
341 
21.1 
195 
12.0 
244 
34.6 
293 
48.1 
342 
24.1 
196 
12.0 
245 
32.3 
294 
47.3 
343 
25.0 
197 
12.0 
246 
29.0 
295 
46.8 
344 
25.3 
198 
12.0 
247 
25.1 
296 
46.7 
345 
25.5 
199 
12.5 
248 
22.2 
297 
46.8 
346 
26.4 
200 
13.0 
249 
20.9 
298 
47.1 
347 
26.6 
201 
14.0 
250 
20.4 
299 
47.3 
348 
27.1 
202 
15.0 
251 
19.5 
300 
47.3 
349 
27.7 
203 
16.5 
252 
18.4 
301 
47.1 
350 
28.1 
204 
19.0 
253 
17.8 
302 
46.6 
351 
28.2 
205 
21.2 
254 
17.8 
303 
45.8 
352 
28.1 
206 
23.8 
255 
17.4 
304 
44.8 
353 
28.0 
207 
26.9 
256 
15.7 
305 
43.3 
354 
27.9 
208 
29.6 
257 
14.5 
306 
41.8 
355 
27.9 
209 
32.0 
258 
15.4 
307 
40.8 
356 
28.1 
210 
35.2 
259 
17.9 
308 
40.3 
357 
28.2 
211 
37.5 
260 
20.6 
309 
40.1 
358 
28.0 
212 
39.2 
261 
23.2 
310 
39.7 
359 
26.9 
213 
40.5 
262 
25.7 
311 
39.2 
360 
25.0 
214 
41.6 
263 
28.7 
312 
38.5 
361 
23.2 
215 
43.1 
264 
32.5 
313 
37.4 
362 
21.9 
216 
45.0 
265 
36.1 
314 
36.0 
363 
21.1 
217 
47.1 
266 
39.0 
315 
34.4 
364 
20.7 
218 
49.0 
267 
40.8 
316 
33.0 
365 
20.7 
219 
50.6 
268 
42.9 
317 
31.7 
366 
20.8 
220 
51.8 
269 
44.4 
318 
30.0 
367 
21.2 
221 
52.7 
270 
45.9 
319 
28.0 
368 
22.1 
222 
53.1 
271 
46.0 
320 
26.1 
369 
23.5 
223 
53.5 
272 
45.6 
321 
25.6 
370 
24.3 
224 
53.8 
273 
45.3 
322 
24.9 
371 
24.5 
225 
54.2 
274 
43.7 
323 
24.9 
372 
23.8 
226 
54.8 
275 
40.8 
324 
24.3 
373 
21.3 
227 
55.3 
276 
38.0 
325 
23.9 
374 
17.7 
228 
55.8 
277 
34.4 
326 
23.9 
375 
14.4 



--- PAGE 126 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 126 of 762 
 
Table A1/7 
WLTC, Class 3 cycle, phase Low3 (Second 589 is the end of phase Low3 and the start 
of phase Medium3) 
Time 
in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed in km/h 
229 
56.2 
278 
30.9 
327 
23.6 
376 
11.9 
230 
56.5 
279 
25.5 
328 
23.3 
377 
10.2 
231 
56.5 
280 
21.4 
329 
20.5 
378 
8.9 
232 
56.2 
281 
20.2 
330 
17.5 
379 
8.0 
233 
54.9 
282 
22.9 
331 
16.9 
380 
7.2 
234 
52.9 
283 
26.6 
332 
16.7 
381 
6.1 
235 
51.0 
284 
30.2 
333 
15.9 
382 
4.9 
236 
49.8 
285 
34.1 
334 
15.6 
383 
3.7 
384 
2.3 
433 
31.3 
482 
0.0 
531 
0.0 
385 
0.9 
434 
31.1 
483 
0.0 
532 
0.0 
386 
0.0 
435 
30.6 
484 
0.0 
533 
0.2 
387 
0.0 
436 
29.2 
485 
0.0 
534 
1.2 
388 
0.0 
437 
26.7 
486 
0.0 
535 
3.2 
389 
0.0 
438 
23.0 
487 
0.0 
536 
5.2 
390 
0.0 
439 
18.2 
488 
0.0 
537 
8.2 
391 
0.0 
440 
12.9 
489 
0.0 
538 
13 
392 
0.5 
441 
7.7 
490 
0.0 
539 
18.8 
393 
2.1 
442 
3.8 
491 
0.0 
540 
23.1 
394 
4.8 
443 
1.3 
492 
0.0 
541 
24.5 
395 
8.3 
444 
0.2 
493 
0.0 
542 
24.5 
396 
12.3 
445 
0.0 
494 
0.0 
543 
24.3 
397 
16.6 
446 
0.0 
495 
0.0 
544 
23.6 
398 
20.9 
447 
0.0 
496 
0.0 
545 
22.3 
399 
24.2 
448 
0.0 
497 
0.0 
546 
20.1 
400 
25.6 
449 
0.0 
498 
0.0 
547 
18.5 
401 
25.6 
450 
0.0 
499 
0.0 
548 
17.2 
402 
24.9 
451 
0.0 
500 
0.0 
549 
16.3 
403 
23.3 
452 
0.0 
501 
0.0 
550 
15.4 
404 
21.6 
453 
0.0 
502 
0.0 
551 
14.7 
405 
20.2 
454 
0.0 
503 
0.0 
552 
14.3 
406 
18.7 
455 
0.0 
504 
0.0 
553 
13.7 
407 
17.0 
456 
0.0 
505 
0.0 
554 
13.3 
408 
15.3 
457 
0.0 
506 
0.0 
555 
13.1 
409 
14.2 
458 
0.0 
507 
0.0 
556 
13.1 
410 
13.9 
459 
0.0 
508 
0.0 
557 
13.3 
411 
14.0 
460 
0.0 
509 
0.0 
558 
13.8 
412 
14.2 
461 
0.0 
510 
0.0 
559 
14.5 
413 
14.5 
462 
0.0 
511 
0.0 
560 
16.5 
414 
14.9 
463 
0.0 
512 
0.5 
561 
17.0 
415 
15.9 
464 
0.0 
513 
2.5 
562 
17.0 
416 
17.4 
465 
0.0 
514 
6.6 
563 
17.0 
417 
18.7 
466 
0.0 
515 
11.8 
564 
15.4 
418 
19.1 
467 
0.0 
516 
16.8 
565 
10.1 
419 
18.8 
468 
0.0 
517 
20.5 
566 
4.8 



--- PAGE 127 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 127 of 762 
 
Table A1/7 
WLTC, Class 3 cycle, phase Low3 (Second 589 is the end of phase Low3 and the start 
of phase Medium3) 
Time 
in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed in km/h 
420 
17.6 
469 
0.0 
518 
21.9 
567 
0.0 
421 
16.6 
470 
0.0 
519 
21.9 
568 
0.0 
422 
16.2 
471 
0.0 
520 
21.3 
569 
0.0 
423 
16.4 
472 
0.0 
521 
20.3 
570 
0.0 
424 
17.2 
473 
0.0 
522 
19.2 
571 
0.0 
425 
19.1 
474 
0.0 
523 
17.8 
572 
0.0 
426 
22.6 
475 
0.0 
524 
15.5 
573 
0.0 
427 
27.4 
476 
0.0 
525 
11.9 
574 
0.0 
428 
31.6 
477 
0.0 
526 
7.6 
575 
0.0 
429 
33.4 
478 
0.0 
527 
4.0 
576 
0.0 
430 
33.5 
479 
0.0 
528 
2.0 
577 
0.0 
431 
32.8 
480 
0.0 
529 
1.0 
578 
0.0 
432 
31.9 
481 
0.0 
530 
0.0 
579 
0.0 
580 
0.0   
  
  
  
  
  
581 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
582 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
583 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
584 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
585 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
586 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
587 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
588 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
589 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 128 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 128 of 762 
 
Table A1/8 
WLTC, Class 3a cycle, phase Medium3a (Second 589 is the end of phase Low3 and the 
start of phase Medium3a) 
Time 
in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time 
in s 
Speed in km/h 
590 
0.0 
637 
53.0 
684 
18.9 
731 
41.9 
591 
0.0 
638 
53.0 
685 
18.9 
732 
42.0 
592 
0.0 
639 
52.9 
686 
21.3 
733 
42.2 
593 
0.0 
640 
52.7 
687 
23.9 
734 
42.4 
594 
0.0 
641 
52.6 
688 
25.9 
735 
42.7 
595 
0.0 
642 
53.1 
689 
28.4 
736 
43.1 
596 
0.0 
643 
54.3 
690 
30.3 
737 
43.7 
597 
0.0 
644 
55.2 
691 
30.9 
738 
44.0 
598 
0.0 
645 
55.5 
692 
31.1 
739 
44.1 
599 
0.0 
646 
55.9 
693 
31.8 
740 
45.3 
600 
0.0 
647 
56.3 
694 
32.7 
741 
46.4 
601 
1.0 
648 
56.7 
695 
33.2 
742 
47.2 
602 
2.1 
649 
56.9 
696 
32.4 
743 
47.3 
603 
5.2 
650 
56.8 
697 
28.3 
744 
47.4 
604 
9.2 
651 
56.0 
698 
25.8 
745 
47.4 
605 
13.5 
652 
54.2 
699 
23.1 
746 
47.5 
606 
18.1 
653 
52.1 
700 
21.8 
747 
47.9 
607 
22.3 
654 
50.1 
701 
21.2 
748 
48.6 
608 
26.0 
655 
47.2 
702 
21.0 
749 
49.4 
609 
29.3 
656 
43.2 
703 
21.0 
750 
49.8 
610 
32.8 
657 
39.2 
704 
20.9 
751 
49.8 
611 
36.0 
658 
36.5 
705 
19.9 
752 
49.7 
612 
39.2 
659 
34.3 
706 
17.9 
753 
49.3 
613 
42.5 
660 
31.0 
707 
15.1 
754 
48.5 
614 
45.7 
661 
26.0 
708 
12.8 
755 
47.6 
615 
48.2 
662 
20.7 
709 
12.0 
756 
46.3 
616 
48.4 
663 
15.4 
710 
13.2 
757 
43.7 
617 
48.2 
664 
13.1 
711 
17.1 
758 
39.3 
618 
47.8 
665 
12.0 
712 
21.1 
759 
34.1 
619 
47.0 
666 
12.5 
713 
21.8 
760 
29.0 
620 
45.9 
667 
14.0 
714 
21.2 
761 
23.7 
621 
44.9 
668 
19.0 
715 
18.5 
762 
18.4 
622 
44.4 
669 
23.2 
716 
13.9 
763 
14.3 
623 
44.3 
670 
28.0 
717 
12.0 
764 
12.0 
624 
44.5 
671 
32.0 
718 
12.0 
765 
12.8 
625 
45.1 
672 
34.0 
719 
13.0 
766 
16.0 
626 
45.7 
673 
36.0 
720 
16.3 
767 
20.4 
627 
46.0 
674 
38.0 
721 
20.5 
768 
24.0 
628 
46.0 
675 
40.0 
722 
23.9 
769 
29.0 
629 
46.0 
676 
40.3 
723 
26.0 
770 
32.2 
630 
46.1 
677 
40.5 
724 
28.0 
771 
36.8 
631 
46.7 
678 
39.0 
725 
31.5 
772 
39.4 
632 
47.7 
679 
35.7 
726 
33.4 
773 
43.2 
633 
48.9 
680 
31.8 
727 
36.0 
774 
45.8 



--- PAGE 129 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 129 of 762 
 
Table A1/8 
WLTC, Class 3a cycle, phase Medium3a (Second 589 is the end of phase Low3 and the 
start of phase Medium3a) 
Time 
in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time 
in s 
Speed in km/h 
634 
50.3 
681 
27.1 
728 
37.8 
775 
49.2 
635 
51.6 
682 
22.8 
729 
40.2 
776 
51.4 
636 
52.6 
683 
21.1 
730 
41.6 
777 
54.2 
778 
56.0 
827 
37.1 
876 
75.8 
925 
62.3 
779 
58.3 
828 
38.9 
877 
76.6 
926 
62.7 
780 
59.8 
829 
41.4 
878 
76.5 
927 
62.0 
781 
61.7 
830 
44.0 
879 
76.2 
928 
61.3 
782 
62.7 
831 
46.3 
880 
75.8 
929 
60.9 
783 
63.3 
832 
47.7 
881 
75.4 
930 
60.5 
784 
63.6 
833 
48.2 
882 
74.8 
931 
60.2 
785 
64.0 
834 
48.7 
883 
73.9 
932 
59.8 
786 
64.7 
835 
49.3 
884 
72.7 
933 
59.4 
787 
65.2 
836 
49.8 
885 
71.3 
934 
58.6 
788 
65.3 
837 
50.2 
886 
70.4 
935 
57.5 
789 
65.3 
838 
50.9 
887 
70.0 
936 
56.6 
790 
65.4 
839 
51.8 
888 
70.0 
937 
56.0 
791 
65.7 
840 
52.5 
889 
69.0 
938 
55.5 
792 
66.0 
841 
53.3 
890 
68.0 
939 
55.0 
793 
65.6 
842 
54.5 
891 
67.3 
940 
54.4 
794 
63.5 
843 
55.7 
892 
66.2 
941 
54.1 
795 
59.7 
844 
56.5 
893 
64.8 
942 
54.0 
796 
54.6 
845 
56.8 
894 
63.6 
943 
53.9 
797 
49.3 
846 
57.0 
895 
62.6 
944 
53.9 
798 
44.9 
847 
57.2 
896 
62.1 
945 
54.0 
799 
42.3 
848 
57.7 
897 
61.9 
946 
54.2 
800 
41.4 
849 
58.7 
898 
61.9 
947 
55.0 
801 
41.3 
850 
60.1 
899 
61.8 
948 
55.8 
802 
43.0 
851 
61.1 
900 
61.5 
949 
56.2 
803 
45.0 
852 
61.7 
901 
60.9 
950 
56.1 
804 
46.5 
853 
62.3 
902 
59.7 
951 
55.1 
805 
48.3 
854 
62.9 
903 
54.6 
952 
52.7 
806 
49.5 
855 
63.3 
904 
49.3 
953 
48.4 
807 
51.2 
856 
63.4 
905 
44.9 
954 
43.1 
808 
52.2 
857 
63.5 
906 
42.3 
955 
37.8 
809 
51.6 
858 
63.9 
907 
41.4 
956 
32.5 
810 
49.7 
859 
64.4 
908 
41.3 
957 
27.2 
811 
47.4 
860 
65.0 
909 
42.1 
958 
25.1 
812 
43.7 
861 
65.6 
910 
44.7 
959 
27.0 
813 
39.7 
862 
66.6 
911 
46.0 
960 
29.8 
814 
35.5 
863 
67.4 
912 
48.8 
961 
33.8 
815 
31.1 
864 
68.2 
913 
50.1 
962 
37.0 
816 
26.3 
865 
69.1 
914 
51.3 
963 
40.7 
817 
21.9 
866 
70.0 
915 
54.1 
964 
43.0 
818 
18.0 
867 
70.8 
916 
55.2 
965 
45.6 



--- PAGE 130 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 130 of 762 
 
Table A1/8 
WLTC, Class 3a cycle, phase Medium3a (Second 589 is the end of phase Low3 and the 
start of phase Medium3a) 
Time 
in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time 
in s 
Speed in km/h 
819 
17.0 
868 
71.5 
917 
56.2 
966 
46.9 
820 
18.0 
869 
72.4 
918 
56.1 
967 
47.0 
821 
21.4 
870 
73.0 
919 
56.1 
968 
46.9 
822 
24.8 
871 
73.7 
920 
56.5 
969 
46.5 
823 
27.9 
872 
74.4 
921 
57.5 
970 
45.8 
824 
30.8 
873 
74.9 
922 
59.2 
971 
44.3 
825 
33.0 
874 
75.3 
923 
60.7 
972 
41.3 
826 
35.1 
875 
75.6 
924 
61.8 
973 
36.5 
974 
31.7  
 
 
 
 
 
975 
27.0  
 
 
 
 
 
976 
24.7  
 
 
 
 
 
977 
19.3  
 
 
 
 
 
978 
16.0  
 
 
 
 
 
979 
13.2  
 
 
 
 
 
980 
10.7  
 
 
 
 
 
981 
8.8  
 
 
 
 
 
982 
7.2  
 
 
 
 
 
983 
5.5  
 
 
 
 
 
984 
3.2  
 
 
 
 
 
985 
1.1  
 
 
 
 
 
986 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
987 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
988 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
989 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
990 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
991 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
992 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
993 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
994 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
995 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
996 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
997 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
998 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
999 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1000 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1001 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1002 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1003 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1004 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1005 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1006 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1007 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1008 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1009 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 131 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 131 of 762 
 
Table A1/8 
WLTC, Class 3a cycle, phase Medium3a (Second 589 is the end of phase Low3 and the 
start of phase Medium3a) 
Time 
in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time 
in s 
Speed in km/h 
1010 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1011 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1012 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1013 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1014 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1015 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1016 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1017 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1018 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1019 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1020 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1021 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1022 
0.0   
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 



--- PAGE 132 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 132 of 762 
 
Table A1/9 
WLTC, Class 3b cycle, phase Medium3b (Second 589 is the end of phase Low3 and the 
start of phase Medium3b) 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in 
s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in 
s Speed in km/h 
590 
0.0 
637 
53.0 
684 
18.9 
731 
41.9 
591 
0.0 
638 
53.0 
685 
18.9 
732 
42.0 
592 
0.0 
639 
52.9 
686 
21.3 
733 
42.2 
593 
0.0 
640 
52.7 
687 
23.9 
734 
42.4 
594 
0.0 
641 
52.6 
688 
25.9 
735 
42.7 
595 
0.0 
642 
53.1 
689 
28.4 
736 
43.1 
596 
0.0 
643 
54.3 
690 
30.3 
737 
43.7 
597 
0.0 
644 
55.2 
691 
30.9 
738 
44.0 
598 
0.0 
645 
55.5 
692 
31.1 
739 
44.1 
599 
0.0 
646 
55.9 
693 
31.8 
740 
45.3 
600 
0.0 
647 
56.3 
694 
32.7 
741 
46.4 
601 
1.0 
648 
56.7 
695 
33.2 
742 
47.2 
602 
2.1 
649 
56.9 
696 
32.4 
743 
47.3 
603 
4.8 
650 
56.8 
697 
28.3 
744 
47.4 
604 
9.1 
651 
56.0 
698 
25.8 
745 
47.4 
605 
14.2 
652 
54.2 
699 
23.1 
746 
47.5 
606 
19.8 
653 
52.1 
700 
21.8 
747 
47.9 
607 
25.5 
654 
50.1 
701 
21.2 
748 
48.6 
608 
30.5 
655 
47.2 
702 
21.0 
749 
49.4 
609 
34.8 
656 
43.2 
703 
21.0 
750 
49.8 
610 
38.8 
657 
39.2 
704 
20.9 
751 
49.8 
611 
42.9 
658 
36.5 
705 
19.9 
752 
49.7 
612 
46.4 
659 
34.3 
706 
17.9 
753 
49.3 
613 
48.3 
660 
31.0 
707 
15.1 
754 
48.5 
614 
48.7 
661 
26.0 
708 
12.8 
755 
47.6 
615 
48.5 
662 
20.7 
709 
12.0 
756 
46.3 
616 
48.4 
663 
15.4 
710 
13.2 
757 
43.7 
617 
48.2 
664 
13.1 
711 
17.1 
758 
39.3 
618 
47.8 
665 
12.0 
712 
21.1 
759 
34.1 
619 
47.0 
666 
12.5 
713 
21.8 
760 
29.0 
620 
45.9 
667 
14.0 
714 
21.2 
761 
23.7 
621 
44.9 
668 
19.0 
715 
18.5 
762 
18.4 
622 
44.4 
669 
23.2 
716 
13.9 
763 
14.3 
623 
44.3 
670 
28.0 
717 
12.0 
764 
12.0 
624 
44.5 
671 
32.0 
718 
12.0 
765 
12.8 
625 
45.1 
672 
34.0 
719 
13.0 
766 
16.0 
626 
45.7 
673 
36.0 
720 
16.0 
767 
19.1 
627 
46.0 
674 
38.0 
721 
18.5 
768 
22.4 
628 
46.0 
675 
40.0 
722 
20.6 
769 
25.6 
629 
46.0 
676 
40.3 
723 
22.5 
770 
30.1 
630 
46.1 
677 
40.5 
724 
24.0 
771 
35.3 
631 
46.7 
678 
39.0 
725 
26.6 
772 
39.9 
632 
47.7 
679 
35.7 
726 
29.9 
773 
44.5 
633 
48.9 
680 
31.8 
727 
34.8 
774 
47.5 



--- PAGE 133 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 133 of 762 
 
Table A1/9 
WLTC, Class 3b cycle, phase Medium3b (Second 589 is the end of phase Low3 and the 
start of phase Medium3b) 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in 
s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in 
s Speed in km/h 
634 
50.3 
681 
27.1 
728 
37.8 
775 
50.9 
635 
51.6 
682 
22.8 
729 
40.2 
776 
54.1 
636 
52.6 
683 
21.1 
730 
41.6 
777 
56.3 
778 
58.1 
827 
37.1 
876 
72.7 
925 
64.1 
779 
59.8 
828 
38.9 
877 
71.3 
926 
62.7 
780 
61.1 
829 
41.4 
878 
70.4 
927 
62.0 
781 
62.1 
830 
44.0 
879 
70.0 
928 
61.3 
782 
62.8 
831 
46.3 
880 
70.0 
929 
60.9 
783 
63.3 
832 
47.7 
881 
69.0 
930 
60.5 
784 
63.6 
833 
48.2 
882 
68.0 
931 
60.2 
785 
64.0 
834 
48.7 
883 
68.0 
932 
59.8 
786 
64.7 
835 
49.3 
884 
68.0 
933 
59.4 
787 
65.2 
836 
49.8 
885 
68.1 
934 
58.6 
788 
65.3 
837 
50.2 
886 
68.4 
935 
57.5 
789 
65.3 
838 
50.9 
887 
68.6 
936 
56.6 
790 
65.4 
839 
51.8 
888 
68.7 
937 
56.0 
791 
65.7 
840 
52.5 
889 
68.5 
938 
55.5 
792 
66.0 
841 
53.3 
890 
68.1 
939 
55.0 
793 
65.6 
842 
54.5 
891 
67.3 
940 
54.4 
794 
63.5 
843 
55.7 
892 
66.2 
941 
54.1 
795 
59.7 
844 
56.5 
893 
64.8 
942 
54.0 
796 
54.6 
845 
56.8 
894 
63.6 
943 
53.9 
797 
49.3 
846 
57.0 
895 
62.6 
944 
53.9 
798 
44.9 
847 
57.2 
896 
62.1 
945 
54.0 
799 
42.3 
848 
57.7 
897 
61.9 
946 
54.2 
800 
41.4 
849 
58.7 
898 
61.9 
947 
55.0 
801 
41.3 
850 
60.1 
899 
61.8 
948 
55.8 
802 
42.1 
851 
61.1 
900 
61.5 
949 
56.2 
803 
44.7 
852 
61.7 
901 
60.9 
950 
56.1 
804 
48.4 
853 
62.3 
902 
59.7 
951 
55.1 
805 
51.4 
854 
62.9 
903 
54.6 
952 
52.7 
806 
52.7 
855 
63.3 
904 
49.3 
953 
48.4 
807 
53.0 
856 
63.4 
905 
44.9 
954 
43.1 
808 
52.5 
857 
63.5 
906 
42.3 
955 
37.8 
809 
51.3 
858 
64.5 
907 
41.4 
956 
32.5 
810 
49.7 
859 
65.8 
908 
41.3 
957 
27.2 
811 
47.4 
860 
66.8 
909 
42.1 
958 
25.1 
812 
43.7 
861 
67.4 
910 
44.7 
959 
26.0 
813 
39.7 
862 
68.8 
911 
48.4 
960 
29.3 
814 
35.5 
863 
71.1 
912 
51.4 
961 
34.6 
815 
31.1 
864 
72.3 
913 
52.7 
962 
40.4 
816 
26.3 
865 
72.8 
914 
54.0 
963 
45.3 
817 
21.9 
866 
73.4 
915 
57.0 
964 
49.0 
818 
18.0 
867 
74.6 
916 
58.1 
965 
51.1 



--- PAGE 134 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 134 of 762 
 
Table A1/9 
WLTC, Class 3b cycle, phase Medium3b (Second 589 is the end of phase Low3 and the 
start of phase Medium3b) 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in 
s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in 
s Speed in km/h 
819 
17.0 
868 
76.0 
917 
59.2 
966 
52.1 
820 
18.0 
869 
76.6 
918 
59.0 
967 
52.2 
821 
21.4 
870 
76.5 
919 
59.1 
968 
52.1 
822 
24.8 
871 
76.2 
920 
59.5 
969 
51.7 
823 
27.9 
872 
75.8 
921 
60.5 
970 
50.9 
824 
30.8 
873 
75.4 
922 
62.3 
971 
49.2 
825 
33.0 
874 
74.8 
923 
63.9 
972 
45.9 
826 
35.1 
875 
73.9 
924 
65.1 
973 
40.6 
974 
35.3  
 
 
 
 
 
975 
30.0  
 
 
 
 
 
976 
24.7  
 
 
 
 
 
977 
19.3  
 
 
 
 
 
978 
16.0  
 
 
 
 
 
979 
13.2  
 
 
 
 
 
980 
10.7  
 
 
 
 
 
981 
8.8  
 
 
 
 
 
982 
7.2  
 
 
 
 
 
983 
5.5  
 
 
 
 
 
984 
3.2  
 
 
 
 
 
985 
1.1  
 
 
 
 
 
986 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
987 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
988 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
989 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
990 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
991 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
992 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
993 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
994 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
995 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
996 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
997 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
998 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
999 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1000 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1001 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1002 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1003 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1004 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1005 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1006 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1007 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1008 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1009 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 135 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 135 of 762 
 
Table A1/9 
WLTC, Class 3b cycle, phase Medium3b (Second 589 is the end of phase Low3 and the 
start of phase Medium3b) 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in 
s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in 
s Speed in km/h 
1010 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1011 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1012 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1013 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1014 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1015 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1016 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1017 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1018 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1019 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1020 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1021 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1022 
0.0   
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 



--- PAGE 136 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 136 of 762 
 
Table A1/10 
WLTC, Class 3a cycle, phase High3a (Second 1022 is the start of this phase) 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time 
in s Speed in km/h 
1023 
0.0 
1070 
29.0 
1117 
66.2 
1164 
52.6 
1024 
0.0 
1071 
32.0 
1118 
65.8 
1165 
54.5 
1025 
0.0 
1072 
34.8 
1119 
64.7 
1166 
56.6 
1026 
0.0 
1073 
37.7 
1120 
63.6 
1167 
58.3 
1027 
0.8 
1074 
40.8 
1121 
62.9 
1168 
60.0 
1028 
3.6 
1075 
43.2 
1122 
62.4 
1169 
61.5 
1029 
8.6 
1076 
46.0 
1123 
61.7 
1170 
63.1 
1030 
14.6 
1077 
48.0 
1124 
60.1 
1171 
64.3 
1031 
20.0 
1078 
50.7 
1125 
57.3 
1172 
65.7 
1032 
24.4 
1079 
52.0 
1126 
55.8 
1173 
67.1 
1033 
28.2 
1080 
54.5 
1127 
50.5 
1174 
68.3 
1034 
31.7 
1081 
55.9 
1128 
45.2 
1175 
69.7 
1035 
35.0 
1082 
57.4 
1129 
40.1 
1176 
70.6 
1036 
37.6 
1083 
58.1 
1130 
36.2 
1177 
71.6 
1037 
39.7 
1084 
58.4 
1131 
32.9 
1178 
72.6 
1038 
41.5 
1085 
58.8 
1132 
29.8 
1179 
73.5 
1039 
43.6 
1086 
58.8 
1133 
26.6 
1180 
74.2 
1040 
46.0 
1087 
58.6 
1134 
23.0 
1181 
74.9 
1041 
48.4 
1088 
58.7 
1135 
19.4 
1182 
75.6 
1042 
50.5 
1089 
58.8 
1136 
16.3 
1183 
76.3 
1043 
51.9 
1090 
58.8 
1137 
14.6 
1184 
77.1 
1044 
52.6 
1091 
58.8 
1138 
14.2 
1185 
77.9 
1045 
52.8 
1092 
59.1 
1139 
14.3 
1186 
78.5 
1046 
52.9 
1093 
60.1 
1140 
14.6 
1187 
79.0 
1047 
53.1 
1094 
61.7 
1141 
15.1 
1188 
79.7 
1048 
53.3 
1095 
63.0 
1142 
16.4 
1189 
80.3 
1049 
53.1 
1096 
63.7 
1143 
19.1 
1190 
81.0 
1050 
52.3 
1097 
63.9 
1144 
22.5 
1191 
81.6 
1051 
50.7 
1098 
63.5 
1145 
24.4 
1192 
82.4 
1052 
48.8 
1099 
62.3 
1146 
24.8 
1193 
82.9 
1053 
46.5 
1100 
60.3 
1147 
22.7 
1194 
83.4 
1054 
43.8 
1101 
58.9 
1148 
17.4 
1195 
83.8 
1055 
40.3 
1102 
58.4 
1149 
13.8 
1196 
84.2 
1056 
36.0 
1103 
58.8 
1150 
12.0 
1197 
84.7 
1057 
30.7 
1104 
60.2 
1151 
12.0 
1198 
85.2 
1058 
25.4 
1105 
62.3 
1152 
12.0 
1199 
85.6 
1059 
21.0 
1106 
63.9 
1153 
13.9 
1200 
86.3 
1060 
16.7 
1107 
64.5 
1154 
17.7 
1201 
86.8 
1061 
13.4 
1108 
64.4 
1155 
22.8 
1202 
87.4 
1062 
12.0 
1109 
63.5 
1156 
27.3 
1203 
88.0 
1063 
12.1 
1110 
62.0 
1157 
31.2 
1204 
88.3 
1064 
12.8 
1111 
61.2 
1158 
35.2 
1205 
88.7 
1065 
15.6 
1112 
61.3 
1159 
39.4 
1206 
89.0 
1066 
19.9 
1113 
61.7 
1160 
42.5 
1207 
89.3 
1067 
23.4 
1114 
62.0 
1161 
45.4 
1208 
89.8 



--- PAGE 137 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 137 of 762 
 
Table A1/10 
WLTC, Class 3a cycle, phase High3a (Second 1022 is the start of this phase) 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time 
in s Speed in km/h 
1068 
24.6 
1115 
64.6 
1162 
48.2 
1209 
90.2 
1069 
27.0 
1116 
66.0 
1163 
50.3 
1210 
90.6 
1211 
91.0 
1260 
95.7 
1309 
75.9 
1358 
68.2 
1212 
91.3 
1261 
95.5 
1310 
76.0 
1359 
66.1 
1213 
91.6 
1262 
95.3 
1311 
76.0 
1360 
63.8 
1214 
91.9 
1263 
95.2 
1312 
76.1 
1361 
61.6 
1215 
92.2 
1264 
95.0 
1313 
76.3 
1362 
60.2 
1216 
92.8 
1265 
94.9 
1314 
76.5 
1363 
59.8 
1217 
93.1 
1266 
94.7 
1315 
76.6 
1364 
60.4 
1218 
93.3 
1267 
94.5 
1316 
76.8 
1365 
61.8 
1219 
93.5 
1268 
94.4 
1317 
77.1 
1366 
62.6 
1220 
93.7 
1269 
94.4 
1318 
77.1 
1367 
62.7 
1221 
93.9 
1270 
94.3 
1319 
77.2 
1368 
61.9 
1222 
94.0 
1271 
94.3 
1320 
77.2 
1369 
60.0 
1223 
94.1 
1272 
94.1 
1321 
77.6 
1370 
58.4 
1224 
94.3 
1273 
93.9 
1322 
78.0 
1371 
57.8 
1225 
94.4 
1274 
93.4 
1323 
78.4 
1372 
57.8 
1226 
94.6 
1275 
92.8 
1324 
78.8 
1373 
57.8 
1227 
94.7 
1276 
92.0 
1325 
79.2 
1374 
57.3 
1228 
94.8 
1277 
91.3 
1326 
80.3 
1375 
56.2 
1229 
95.0 
1278 
90.6 
1327 
80.8 
1376 
54.3 
1230 
95.1 
1279 
90.0 
1328 
81.0 
1377 
50.8 
1231 
95.3 
1280 
89.3 
1329 
81.0 
1378 
45.5 
1232 
95.4 
1281 
88.7 
1330 
81.0 
1379 
40.2 
1233 
95.6 
1282 
88.1 
1331 
81.0 
1380 
34.9 
1234 
95.7 
1283 
87.4 
1332 
81.0 
1381 
29.6 
1235 
95.8 
1284 
86.7 
1333 
80.9 
1382 
28.7 
1236 
96.0 
1285 
86.0 
1334 
80.6 
1383 
29.3 
1237 
96.1 
1286 
85.3 
1335 
80.3 
1384 
30.5 
1238 
96.3 
1287 
84.7 
1336 
80.0 
1385 
31.7 
1239 
96.4 
1288 
84.1 
1337 
79.9 
1386 
32.9 
1240 
96.6 
1289 
83.5 
1338 
79.8 
1387 
35.0 
1241 
96.8 
1290 
82.9 
1339 
79.8 
1388 
38.0 
1242 
97.0 
1291 
82.3 
1340 
79.8 
1389 
40.5 
1243 
97.2 
1292 
81.7 
1341 
79.9 
1390 
42.7 
1244 
97.3 
1293 
81.1 
1342 
80.0 
1391 
45.8 
1245 
97.4 
1294 
80.5 
1343 
80.4 
1392 
47.5 
1246 
97.4 
1295 
79.9 
1344 
80.8 
1393 
48.9 
1247 
97.4 
1296 
79.4 
1345 
81.2 
1394 
49.4 
1248 
97.4 
1297 
79.1 
1346 
81.5 
1395 
49.4 
1249 
97.3 
1298 
78.8 
1347 
81.6 
1396 
49.2 
1250 
97.3 
1299 
78.5 
1348 
81.6 
1397 
48.7 
1251 
97.3 
1300 
78.2 
1349 
81.4 
1398 
47.9 
1252 
97.3 
1301 
77.9 
1350 
80.7 
1399 
46.9 
1253 
97.2 
1302 
77.6 
1351 
79.6 
1400 
45.6 



--- PAGE 138 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 138 of 762 
 
Table A1/10 
WLTC, Class 3a cycle, phase High3a (Second 1022 is the start of this phase) 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time 
in s Speed in km/h 
1254 
97.1 
1303 
77.3 
1352 
78.2 
1401 
44.2 
1255 
97.0 
1304 
77.0 
1353 
76.8 
1402 
42.7 
1256 
96.9 
1305 
76.7 
1354 
75.3 
1403 
40.7 
1257 
96.7 
1306 
76.0 
1355 
73.8 
1404 
37.1 
1258 
96.4 
1307 
76.0 
1356 
72.1 
1405 
33.9 
1259 
96.1 
1308 
76.0 
1357 
70.2 
1406 
30.6 
1407 
28.6 
1456 
0.0  
 
 
 
1408 
27.3 
1457 
0.0  
 
 
 
1409 
27.2 
1458 
0.0  
 
 
 
1410 
27.5 
1459 
0.0  
 
 
 
1411 
27.4 
1460 
0.0  
 
 
 
1412 
27.1 
1461 
0.0  
 
 
 
1413 
26.7 
1462 
0.0  
 
 
 
1414 
26.8 
1463 
0.0  
 
 
 
1415 
28.2 
1464 
0.0  
 
 
 
1416 
31.1 
1465 
0.0  
 
 
 
1417 
34.8 
1466 
0.0  
 
 
 
1418 
38.4 
1467 
0.0  
 
 
 
1419 
40.9 
1468 
0.0  
 
 
 
1420 
41.7 
1469 
0.0  
 
 
 
1421 
40.9 
1470 
0.0  
 
 
 
1422 
38.3 
1471 
0.0  
 
 
 
1423 
35.3 
1472 
0.0  
 
 
 
1424 
34.3 
1473 
0.0  
 
 
 
1425 
34.6 
1474 
0.0  
 
 
 
1426 
36.3 
1475 
0.0  
 
 
 
1427 
39.5 
1476 
0.0  
 
 
 
1428 
41.8 
1477 
0.0  
 
 
 
1429 
42.5  
 
 
 
 
 
1430 
41.9  
 
 
 
 
 
1431 
40.1  
 
 
 
 
 
1432 
36.6  
 
 
 
 
 
1433 
31.3  
 
 
 
 
 
1434 
26.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1435 
20.6  
 
 
 
 
 
1436 
19.1  
 
 
 
 
 
1437 
19.7  
 
 
 
 
 
1438 
21.1  
 
 
 
 
 
1439 
22.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1440 
22.1  
 
 
 
 
 
1441 
21.4  
 
 
 
 
 
1442 
19.6  
 
 
 
 
 
1443 
18.3  
 
 
 
 
 
1444 
18.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1445 
18.3  
 
 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 139 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 139 of 762 
 
Table A1/10 
WLTC, Class 3a cycle, phase High3a (Second 1022 is the start of this phase) 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time 
in s Speed in km/h 
1446 
18.5  
 
 
 
 
 
1447 
17.9  
 
 
 
 
 
1448 
15.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1449 
9.9  
 
 
 
 
 
1450 
4.6  
 
 
 
 
 
1451 
1.2  
 
 
 
 
 
1452 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1453 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1454 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1455 
0.0   
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 



--- PAGE 140 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 140 of 762 
 
Table A1/11 
WLTC, Class 3b cycle, phase High3b (Second 1022 is the start of this phase) 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time 
in s 
Speed in km/h 
1023 
0.0 
1070 
26.4 
1117 
69.7 
1164 
52.6 
1024 
0.0 
1071 
28.8 
1118 
69.3 
1165 
54.5 
1025 
0.0 
1072 
31.8 
1119 
68.1 
1166 
56.6 
1026 
0.0 
1073 
35.3 
1120 
66.9 
1167 
58.3 
1027 
0.8 
1074 
39.5 
1121 
66.2 
1168 
60.0 
1028 
3.6 
1075 
44.5 
1122 
65.7 
1169 
61.5 
1029 
8.6 
1076 
49.3 
1123 
64.9 
1170 
63.1 
1030 
14.6 
1077 
53.3 
1124 
63.2 
1171 
64.3 
1031 
20.0 
1078 
56.4 
1125 
60.3 
1172 
65.7 
1032 
24.4 
1079 
58.9 
1126 
55.8 
1173 
67.1 
1033 
28.2 
1080 
61.2 
1127 
50.5 
1174 
68.3 
1034 
31.7 
1081 
62.6 
1128 
45.2 
1175 
69.7 
1035 
35.0 
1082 
63.0 
1129 
40.1 
1176 
70.6 
1036 
37.6 
1083 
62.5 
1130 
36.2 
1177 
71.6 
1037 
39.7 
1084 
60.9 
1131 
32.9 
1178 
72.6 
1038 
41.5 
1085 
59.3 
1132 
29.8 
1179 
73.5 
1039 
43.6 
1086 
58.6 
1133 
26.6 
1180 
74.2 
1040 
46.0 
1087 
58.6 
1134 
23.0 
1181 
74.9 
1041 
48.4 
1088 
58.7 
1135 
19.4 
1182 
75.6 
1042 
50.5 
1089 
58.8 
1136 
16.3 
1183 
76.3 
1043 
51.9 
1090 
58.8 
1137 
14.6 
1184 
77.1 
1044 
52.6 
1091 
58.8 
1138 
14.2 
1185 
77.9 
1045 
52.8 
1092 
59.1 
1139 
14.3 
1186 
78.5 
1046 
52.9 
1093 
60.1 
1140 
14.6 
1187 
79.0 
1047 
53.1 
1094 
61.7 
1141 
15.1 
1188 
79.7 
1048 
53.3 
1095 
63.0 
1142 
16.4 
1189 
80.3 
1049 
53.1 
1096 
63.7 
1143 
19.1 
1190 
81.0 
1050 
52.3 
1097 
63.9 
1144 
22.5 
1191 
81.6 
1051 
50.7 
1098 
63.5 
1145 
24.4 
1192 
82.4 
1052 
48.8 
1099 
62.3 
1146 
24.8 
1193 
82.9 
1053 
46.5 
1100 
60.3 
1147 
22.7 
1194 
83.4 
1054 
43.8 
1101 
58.9 
1148 
17.4 
1195 
83.8 
1055 
40.3 
1102 
58.4 
1149 
13.8 
1196 
84.2 
1056 
36.0 
1103 
58.8 
1150 
12.0 
1197 
84.7 
1057 
30.7 
1104 
60.2 
1151 
12.0 
1198 
85.2 
1058 
25.4 
1105 
62.3 
1152 
12.0 
1199 
85.6 
1059 
21.0 
1106 
63.9 
1153 
13.9 
1200 
86.3 
1060 
16.7 
1107 
64.5 
1154 
17.7 
1201 
86.8 
1061 
13.4 
1108 
64.4 
1155 
22.8 
1202 
87.4 
1062 
12.0 
1109 
63.5 
1156 
27.3 
1203 
88.0 
1063 
12.1 
1110 
62.0 
1157 
31.2 
1204 
88.3 
1064 
12.8 
1111 
61.2 
1158 
35.2 
1205 
88.7 
1065 
15.6 
1112 
61.3 
1159 
39.4 
1206 
89.0 
1066 
19.9 
1113 
62.6 
1160 
42.5 
1207 
89.3 
1067 
23.4 
1114 
65.3 
1161 
45.4 
1208 
89.8 



--- PAGE 141 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 141 of 762 
 
Table A1/11 
WLTC, Class 3b cycle, phase High3b (Second 1022 is the start of this phase) 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time 
in s 
Speed in km/h 
1068 
24.6 
1115 
68.0 
1162 
48.2 
1209 
90.2 
1069 
25.2 
1116 
69.4 
1163 
50.3 
1210 
90.6 
1211 
91.0 
1260 
95.7 
1309 
75.9 
1358 
68.2 
1212 
91.3 
1261 
95.5 
1310 
75.9 
1359 
66.1 
1213 
91.6 
1262 
95.3 
1311 
75.8 
1360 
63.8 
1214 
91.9 
1263 
95.2 
1312 
75.7 
1361 
61.6 
1215 
92.2 
1264 
95.0 
1313 
75.5 
1362 
60.2 
1216 
92.8 
1265 
94.9 
1314 
75.2 
1363 
59.8 
1217 
93.1 
1266 
94.7 
1315 
75.0 
1364 
60.4 
1218 
93.3 
1267 
94.5 
1316 
74.7 
1365 
61.8 
1219 
93.5 
1268 
94.4 
1317 
74.1 
1366 
62.6 
1220 
93.7 
1269 
94.4 
1318 
73.7 
1367 
62.7 
1221 
93.9 
1270 
94.3 
1319 
73.3 
1368 
61.9 
1222 
94.0 
1271 
94.3 
1320 
73.5 
1369 
60.0 
1223 
94.1 
1272 
94.1 
1321 
74.0 
1370 
58.4 
1224 
94.3 
1273 
93.9 
1322 
74.9 
1371 
57.8 
1225 
94.4 
1274 
93.4 
1323 
76.1 
1372 
57.8 
1226 
94.6 
1275 
92.8 
1324 
77.7 
1373 
57.8 
1227 
94.7 
1276 
92.0 
1325 
79.2 
1374 
57.3 
1228 
94.8 
1277 
91.3 
1326 
80.3 
1375 
56.2 
1229 
95.0 
1278 
90.6 
1327 
80.8 
1376 
54.3 
1230 
95.1 
1279 
90.0 
1328 
81.0 
1377 
50.8 
1231 
95.3 
1280 
89.3 
1329 
81.0 
1378 
45.5 
1232 
95.4 
1281 
88.7 
1330 
81.0 
1379 
40.2 
1233 
95.6 
1282 
88.1 
1331 
81.0 
1380 
34.9 
1234 
95.7 
1283 
87.4 
1332 
81.0 
1381 
29.6 
1235 
95.8 
1284 
86.7 
1333 
80.9 
1382 
27.3 
1236 
96.0 
1285 
86.0 
1334 
80.6 
1383 
29.3 
1237 
96.1 
1286 
85.3 
1335 
80.3 
1384 
32.9 
1238 
96.3 
1287 
84.7 
1336 
80.0 
1385 
35.6 
1239 
96.4 
1288 
84.1 
1337 
79.9 
1386 
36.7 
1240 
96.6 
1289 
83.5 
1338 
79.8 
1387 
37.6 
1241 
96.8 
1290 
82.9 
1339 
79.8 
1388 
39.4 
1242 
97.0 
1291 
82.3 
1340 
79.8 
1389 
42.5 
1243 
97.2 
1292 
81.7 
1341 
79.9 
1390 
46.5 
1244 
97.3 
1293 
81.1 
1342 
80.0 
1391 
50.2 
1245 
97.4 
1294 
80.5 
1343 
80.4 
1392 
52.8 
1246 
97.4 
1295 
79.9 
1344 
80.8 
1393 
54.3 
1247 
97.4 
1296 
79.4 
1345 
81.2 
1394 
54.9 
1248 
97.4 
1297 
79.1 
1346 
81.5 
1395 
54.9 
1249 
97.3 
1298 
78.8 
1347 
81.6 
1396 
54.7 
1250 
97.3 
1299 
78.5 
1348 
81.6 
1397 
54.1 
1251 
97.3 
1300 
78.2 
1349 
81.4 
1398 
53.2 
1252 
97.3 
1301 
77.9 
1350 
80.7 
1399 
52.1 
1253 
97.2 
1302 
77.6 
1351 
79.6 
1400 
50.7 



--- PAGE 142 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 142 of 762 
 
Table A1/11 
WLTC, Class 3b cycle, phase High3b (Second 1022 is the start of this phase) 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time 
in s 
Speed in km/h 
1254 
97.1 
1303 
77.3 
1352 
78.2 
1401 
49.1 
1255 
97.0 
1304 
77.0 
1353 
76.8 
1402 
47.4 
1256 
96.9 
1305 
76.7 
1354 
75.3 
1403 
45.2 
1257 
96.7 
1306 
76.0 
1355 
73.8 
1404 
41.8 
1258 
96.4 
1307 
76.0 
1356 
72.1 
1405 
36.5 
1259 
96.1 
1308 
76.0 
1357 
70.2 
1406 
31.2 
1407 
27.6 
1456 
0.0  
 
 
 
1408 
26.9 
1457 
0.0  
 
 
 
1409 
27.3 
1458 
0.0  
 
 
 
1410 
27.5 
1459 
0.0  
 
 
 
1411 
27.4 
1460 
0.0  
 
 
 
1412 
27.1 
1461 
0.0  
 
 
 
1413 
26.7 
1462 
0.0  
 
 
 
1414 
26.8 
1463 
0.0  
 
 
 
1415 
28.2 
1464 
0.0  
 
 
 
1416 
31.1 
1465 
0.0  
 
 
 
1417 
34.8 
1466 
0.0  
 
 
 
1418 
38.4 
1467 
0.0  
 
 
 
1419 
40.9 
1468 
0.0  
 
 
 
1420 
41.7 
1469 
0.0  
 
 
 
1421 
40.9 
1470 
0.0  
 
 
 
1422 
38.3 
1471 
0.0  
 
 
 
1423 
35.3 
1472 
0.0  
 
 
 
1424 
34.3 
1473 
0.0  
 
 
 
1425 
34.6 
1474 
0.0  
 
 
 
1426 
36.3 
1475 
0.0  
 
 
 
1427 
39.5 
1476 
0.0  
 
 
 
1428 
41.8 
1477 
0.0  
 
 
 
1429 
42.5  
 
 
 
 
 
1430 
41.9  
 
 
 
 
 
1431 
40.1  
 
 
 
 
 
1432 
36.6  
 
 
 
 
 
1433 
31.3  
 
 
 
 
 
1434 
26.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1435 
20.6  
 
 
 
 
 
1436 
19.1  
 
 
 
 
 
1437 
19.7  
 
 
 
 
 
1438 
21.1  
 
 
 
 
 
1439 
22.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1440 
22.1  
 
 
 
 
 
1441 
21.4  
 
 
 
 
 
1442 
19.6  
 
 
 
 
 
1443 
18.3  
 
 
 
 
 
1444 
18.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1445 
18.3  
 
 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 143 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 143 of 762 
 
Table A1/11 
WLTC, Class 3b cycle, phase High3b (Second 1022 is the start of this phase) 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time in s 
Speed 
in km/h 
Time 
in s 
Speed in km/h 
1446 
18.5  
 
 
 
 
 
1447 
17.9  
 
 
 
 
 
1448 
15.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1449 
9.9  
 
 
 
 
 
1450 
4.6  
 
 
 
 
 
1451 
1.2  
 
 
 
 
 
1452 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1453 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1454 
0.0  
 
 
 
 
 
1455 
0.0   
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 



--- PAGE 144 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 144 of 762 
 
7.0 
CYCLE IDENTIFICATION 
 
In order to confirm if the correct cycle version was chosen or if the correct cycle 
was implemented into the test bench operation system, checksums of the vehicle 
speed values for cycle phases and the whole cycle are listed in Table A1/13. 
 
Table A1/13 
1Hz checksums (as applicable) 
 
Cycle class 
Cycle phase 
Checksum of 1 Hz target vehicle 
speeds 
Class 1 
Low 
11988.4 
Medium 
17162.8 
Low 
11988.4 
Total 
41139.6 
Class 2 
Low 
11162.2 
Medium 
17054.3 
High 
24450.6 
Total 
52667.1 
Class 3a 
Low 
11140.3 
Medium 
16995.7 
High 
25646.0 
Total 
53782.0 
Class 3b 
Low 
11140.3 
Medium 
17121.2 
High 
25782.2 
Total 
54043.7 
8.0 
CYCLE MODIFICATION 
 
This paragraph shall not apply to OVC-HEVs, NOVC-HEVs and NOVC-FCHVs. 
However, at the request of the manufacturer and with approval of the test agency, 
the downscaling procedure described in paragraph 8.2. of this annex may be 
applied for a NOVC-HEV using the maximum rated engine power as the 



--- PAGE 145 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 145 of 762 
 
maximum vehicle power rating on the applicable WLTP test cycle where the 
electric machine does not impact the maximum vehicle power. 
In the case that the voltage of the traction REESS of a NOVC-HEV is less than 
60V, the manufacturer shall supply technical evidence to the test agency that the 
electric machine does not impact the maximum vehicle power on the applicable 
WLTP test cycle. 
In the case that the voltage of the traction REESS of a NOVC-HEV is equal to or 
greater than 60V, the manufacturer shall demonstrate to the test agency that the 
electric machine does not impact the maximum vehicle power on the applicable 
WLTP test cycle. Examples of such demonstration could include: torque/power 
profiles delivered from the engine and electric machine; electric machine 
operating envelopes; power curves; or other appropriate information to 
demonstrate the power delivery. 
8.1 
General remarks 
 
Driveability problems may occur for vehicles with power to mass ratios close to 
the borderlines between Class 1 and Class 2, Class 2 and Class 3 vehicles, or very 
low powered vehicles in Class 1 
Since these problems are related mainly to cycle phases with a combination of 
high vehicle speed and high accelerations rather than to the maximum speed of 
the cycle, the downscaling procedure shall be applied to improve driveability. 
8.2 
This paragraph describes the method to modify the cycle profile using the 
downscaling procedure. The modified vehicle speed values calculated according 
to paragraphs 8.2.1 to 8.2.3. shall be rounded according to paragraph 6.1.8. of this 
Regulation to 1 place of decimal in a final step. 
8.2.1 
Downscaling procedure for Class 1 cycles 
 
Figure A1/14 shows an example of a downscaled medium speed phase of the 
Class 1 WLTC. 
 
Figure A1/14 
Downscaled medium speed phase of the Class 1 WLTC 



--- PAGE 146 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 146 of 762 
 
 
 
For the Class 1 cycle, the downscaling period is the time period between second 
651 and second 906. Within this time period, the acceleration for the original cycle 
shall be calculated using the following equation: 
𝑎𝑜𝑟𝑖𝑔𝑖=
𝑣𝑖+1−𝑣𝑖
3.6   
 
where: 
𝑣𝑖is the vehicle speed, km/h; 
i is the time between second 651 and second 906. 
The downscaling shall be applied first in the time period between second 651 and 
second 848. The downscaled speed trace shall be subsequently calculated using 
the following equation: 
𝑣𝑑𝑠𝑐𝑖+1 = 𝑣𝑑𝑠𝑐𝑖+ 𝑎𝑜𝑟𝑖𝑔𝑖× (1 −𝑓𝑑𝑠𝑐) × 3.6 
with 𝑖= 651 𝑡𝑜 847. 
For 𝑖= 651, 𝑣𝑑𝑠𝑐𝑖= 𝑣𝑜𝑟𝑖𝑔𝑖 
In order to meet the original vehicle speed at second 907, a correction factor for 
the deceleration shall be calculated using the following equation: 
𝑓𝑐𝑜𝑟𝑟_𝑑𝑒𝑐= 𝑣𝑑𝑠𝑐_848 −36.7
𝑣𝑜𝑟𝑖𝑔_848−−36.7 
where 36.7 km/h is the original vehicle speed at second 907. 
The downscaled vehicle speed between second 849 and second 906 shall be 
subsequently calculated using the following equation: 
𝑣𝑑𝑠𝑐𝑖= 𝑣𝑑𝑠𝑐𝑖−1 + 𝑎𝑜𝑟𝑖𝑔𝑖−1 × 𝑓𝑐𝑜𝑟𝑟_𝑑𝑒𝑐× 3.6 
For 𝑖= 849 𝑡𝑜 906. 
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
590
650
710
770
830
890
950
1010
vehicle speed in km/h
time in s
WLTC class 1, phase Medium1
v_downscaled
Downscaling example, DSC_factor = 0.25



--- PAGE 147 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 147 of 762 
 
8.3 
Determination of the downscaling factor (as applicable) 
 
The downscaling factor 𝑓𝑑𝑠𝑐 is a function of the ratio 𝑟𝑚𝑎𝑥 between the maximum 
required power of the cycle phases where the downscaling is to be applied and the 
rated power of the vehicle, 𝑃𝑟𝑎𝑡𝑒𝑑. 
The maximum required power 𝑃𝑟𝑒𝑞,𝑚𝑎𝑥,𝑖 (in kW) is related to a specific time i and 
the corresponding vehicle speed vi in the cycle trace and is calculated using the 
following equation: 
𝑃𝑟𝑒𝑞,𝑚𝑎𝑥,𝑖=
((𝑓0 × 𝑣𝑖) + (𝑓1 × 𝑣𝑖
2) + (𝑓2 × 𝑣𝑖
3) + (1.03 × 𝑇𝑀×  𝑣𝑖×  𝑎𝑖))
3600
 
where: 
𝑓0, 𝑓1, 𝑓2  are the applicable road load coefficients, N, N/(km/h), and N/(km/h)² 
respectively; 
𝑇𝑀 is the applicable test mass, kg; 
vi is the speed at time i, km/h; 
ai is the acceleration at time i, m/s². 
The cycle time i at which maximum power or power values close to maximum 
power is required is second 764 for the Class 1 cycle, second 1574 for the Class 
2 cycle and second 1566 for the Class 3 cycle. 
The corresponding vehicle speed values, 𝑣𝑖, and acceleration values, 𝑎𝑖, are as 
follows: 
𝑣𝑖= 61.4 km/h, 𝑎𝑖= 0.22 m/s² for Class 1, 
𝑣𝑖= 109.9 km/h, 𝑎𝑖= 0.36 m/s² for Class 2, 
𝑣𝑖= 111.9 km/h, 𝑎𝑖= 0.50 m/s² for Class 3. 
𝑟𝑚𝑎𝑥 shall be calculated using the following equation: 
𝑟𝑚𝑎𝑥=
𝑃𝑟𝑒𝑞,𝑚𝑎𝑥,𝑖
𝑃𝑟𝑎𝑡𝑒𝑑  
The downscaling factor, 𝑓𝑑𝑠𝑐, shall be calculated using the following equations: 
if 𝑟𝑚𝑎𝑥<  𝑟0, then 𝑓𝑑𝑠𝑐= 0  
and no downscaling shall be applied. 
If 𝑟𝑚𝑎𝑥≥ 𝑟0, then 𝑓𝑑𝑠𝑐= 𝑎1 ×  𝑟𝑚𝑎𝑥+ 𝑏1. 
The calculation parameter/coefficients, 𝑟0, 𝑎1 and 𝑏1, are as follows 
Class 1 
𝑟0 = 0.978, 𝑎1 = 0.680, 𝑏1 = −0.665 
Class 2 
𝑟0 = 0.866, 𝑎1 = 0.606, 𝑏1 = −0.525.  



--- PAGE 148 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 148 of 762 
 
Class 3 
𝑟0 = 0.867, 𝑎1 = 0.588 𝑏1 = −0.510. 
The resulting 𝑓𝑑𝑠𝑐 shall be rounded according to paragraph 6.1.8. of this 
Regulation to 3 places of decimal and shall be applied only if it exceeds 0.010. 
The following data shall be recorded: 
(a) fdsc; 
(b)    vmax; 
(c) dcycle (distance driven), m. 
The distance shall be calculated using the following equation 
dcycle = ∑(
(𝑣𝑖+𝑣𝑖−1)
2×3.6
× (𝑡𝑖−𝑡𝑖−1)), for 
i = tstart + 1 to tend 
tstart is the time at which the applicable test cycle starts (see paragraph 3 of this 
annex), s; 
tend is the time at which the applicable test cycle ends (see paragraph 3 of this 
annex), s. 
8.4 
Additional requirements 
 
For different vehicle configurations in terms of test mass and driving resistance 
coefficients, downscaling shall be applied individually. 
If, after application of downscaling, the vehicle’s maximum speed is lower than 
the maximum speed of the cycle, the process described in paragraph 9. of this 
annex shall be applied with the applicable cycle. 
If the vehicle cannot follow the speed trace of the applicable cycle within the 
tolerance at speeds lower than its maximum speed, it shall be driven with the 
accelerator control fully activated during these periods. During such periods of 
operation, speed trace violations shall be permitted. 
9.0 
Cycle modifications for vehicles with a maximum speed lower than the maximum 
speed of the cycle specified in the previous paragraphs of this annex 
9.1 
General remarks 
This paragraph applies to vehicles that are technically able to follow the speed 
trace of the applicable cycle specified in paragraph 1. of this annex (base cycle) 
at speeds lower than its maximum speed, but whose maximum speed is limited to 
a value lower than the maximum speed of the base cycle for other reasons. For 
the purposes of this paragraph, the applicable cycle specified in paragraph 1. shall 
be referred to as the "base cycle" and is used to determine the capped speed cycle. 
In the cases where downscaling according to paragraph 8.2. of this annex is 
applied, the downscaled cycle shall be used as the base cycle. 



--- PAGE 149 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 149 of 762 
 
The maximum speed of the base cycle shall be referred to as vmax,cycle. 
The maximum speed of the vehicle shall be referred to as its capped speed vcap. 
If vcap is applied to a Class 3b vehicle, the Class 3b cycle as defined in paragraph 
3.3.2. of this annex shall be used as the base cycle. This shall apply even if vcap is 
lower than 120 km/h. 
In the cases where vcap is applied, the base cycle shall be modified as described in 
paragraph 9.2. of this annex in order to achieve the same cycle distance for the 
capped speed cycle as for the base cycle. 
9.2 
Calculation steps 
9.2.1 
Determination of the distance difference per cycle phase 
 
An interim capped speed cycle shall be derived by replacing all vehicle speed 
samples vi where vi > vcap by vcap. 
9.2.1.1 
If vcap < vmax,medium, the distance of the medium speed phases of the base cycle 
dbase,medium and the interim capped speed cycle dcap,medium shall be calculated using 
the following equation for both cycles: 
dmedium = ∑(
(𝑣𝑖+𝑣𝑖−1)
2×3.6
× (𝑡𝑖−𝑡𝑖−1)), for i = 590 to 1022 
where: 
vmax,medium is the maximum vehicle speed of the medium speed phase as listed in 
Table A1/2 for the Class 1 cycle, in Table A1/4 for the Class 2 cycle, in Table 
A1/8 for the Class 3a cycle and in Table A1/9 for the Class 3b cycle. 
9.2.1.2 
If vcap < vmax,high, the distances of the high speed phases of the base cycle dbase,high 
and the interim capped speed cycle dcap,high shall be calculated using the following 
equation for both cycles: 
dhigh = ∑(
(𝑣𝑖+𝑣𝑖−1)
2×3.6
× (𝑡𝑖−𝑡𝑖−1)), for i = 1023 to 1477 
vmax,high is the maximum vehicle speed of the high speed phase as listed in Table 
A1/5 for the Class 2 cycle, in Table A1/10 for the Class 3a cycle and in Table 
A1/11 for the Class 3b cycle.  
9.2.2 
Determination of the time periods to be added to the interim capped speed cycle 
in order to compensate for distance differences 
In order to compensate for a difference in distance between the base cycle and the 
interim capped speed cycle, corresponding time periods with vi = vcap shall be 
added to the interim capped speed cycle as described in paragraphs 9.2.2.1. to 
9.2.2.3. inclusive of this annex. 
9.2.2.1 
Additional time period for the medium speed phase 



--- PAGE 150 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 150 of 762 
 
If vcap < vmax,medium, the additional time period to be added to the medium speed 
phase of the interim capped speed cycle shall be calculated using the following 
equation:  
Δtmedium = 
(𝑑𝑏𝑎𝑠𝑒,𝑚𝑒𝑑𝑖𝑢𝑚−𝑑𝑐𝑎𝑝,𝑚𝑒𝑑𝑖𝑢𝑚)
𝑉𝑐𝑎𝑝
× 3.6 
The number of time samples nadd,medium with vi = vcap to be added to the medium 
speed phase of the interim capped speed cycle equals Δtmedium, rounded according 
to paragraph 6.1.8. of this Regulation to the nearest integer. 
9.2.2.2 
Additional time period for the high speed phase 
If vcap < vmax,high, the additional time period to be added to the high speed phases 
of the interim capped speed cycle shall be calculated using the following equation:  
Δthigh = 
(𝑑𝑏𝑎𝑠𝑒,ℎ𝑖𝑔ℎ−𝑑𝑐𝑎𝑝,ℎ𝑖𝑔ℎ)
𝑉𝑐𝑎𝑝
× 3.6 
The number of time samples nadd,high with vi = vcap to be added to the high speed 
phase of the interim capped speed cycle equals Δthigh, rounded according to 
paragraph 6.1.8. of this Regulation to the nearest integer.  
The number of time samples nadd,high with vi = vcap to be added to the high speed 
phase of the interim capped speed cycle equals Δthigh, rounded according to 
paragraph 6.1.8. of this Regulation to the nearest integer.  
9.2.3 
Construction of the final capped speed cycle 
9.2.3.1 
Class 1 cycle 
The first part of the final capped speed cycle consists of the vehicle speed trace of 
the interim capped speed cycle up to the last sample in the medium speed phase 
where v = vcap. The time of this sample is referred to as tmedium. 
Then nadd,medium samples with vi = vcap shall be added, so that the time of the last 
sample is (tmedium + nadd,medium).  
The remaining part of the medium speed phase of the interim capped speed cycle, 
which is identical with the same part of the base cycle, shall then be added, so that 
the time of the last sample is (1022 + nadd,medium). 
9.2.3.2 
Class 2 and Class 3 cycles 
9.2.3.2.1 
vcap < vmax,medium 
 
The first part of the final capped speed cycle consists of the vehicle speed trace of 
the interim capped speed cycle up to the last sample in the medium speed phase 
where v = vcap. The time of this sample is referred to as tmedium. 
Then nadd,medium samples with vi = vcap shall be added, so that the time of the last 
sample is (tmedium + nadd,medium). 



--- PAGE 151 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 151 of 762 
 
The remaining part of the medium speed phase of the interim capped speed cycle, 
which is identical with the same part of the base cycle, shall then be added, so that 
the time of the last sample is (1022 + nadd,medium).  
In a next step, the first part of the high speed phase of the interim capped speed 
cycle up to the last sample in the high speed phase where v = vcap shall be added. 
The time of this sample in the interim capped speed is referred to as thigh, so that 
the time of this sample in the final capped speed cycle is (thigh + nadd,medium). 
Then, nadd,high samples with vi = vcap shall be added, so that the time of the last 
sample becomes (thigh + nadd,medium + nadd,high).  
The remaining part of the high speed phase of the interim capped speed cycle, 
which is identical with the same part of the base cycle, shall then be added, so that 
the time of the last sample is (1477 + nadd,medium + nadd,high).  
The length of the final capped speed cycle is equivalent to the length of the base 
cycle except for differences caused by the rounding process according to 
paragraph 6.1.8. of this Regulation for nadd,medium and nadd,high  
9.2.3.2.2 
vmax, medium ≤ vcap < vmax, high 
 
The first part of the final capped speed cycle consists of the vehicle speed trace of 
the interim capped speed cycle up to the last sample in the high speed phase where 
v = vcap. The time of this sample is referred to as thigh. 
Then, nadd,high samples with vi = vcap shall be added, so that the time of the last 
sample is (thigh + nadd,high).  
The remaining part of the high speed phase of the interim capped speed cycle, 
which is identical with the same part of the base cycle, shall then be added, so that 
the time of the last sample is (1477 + nadd,high).  
The length of the final capped speed cycle is equivalent to the length of the base 
cycle except for differences caused by the rounding process according to 
paragraph 6.1.8. of this Regulation for nadd,high. 
10.0 
Allocation of cycles to vehicles 
10.1 
A vehicle of a certain class shall be tested on the cycle of the same class, i.e. Class 
1 vehicles on the Class 1 cycle, Class 2 vehicles on the Class 2 cycle, Class 3a 
vehicles on the Class 3a cycle, and Class 3b vehicles on the Class 3b cycle. 
However, at the request of the manufacturer and with approval of the Test 
Agency, a vehicle may be tested on a numerically higher cycle class, e.g. a Class 
2 vehicle may be tested on a Class 3 cycle. In this case the differences between 
Classes 3a and 3b shall be respected and the cycle may be downscaled according 
to paragraphs 8. to 8.4. inclusive of this annex. 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 152 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 152 of 762 
 
 
Annex B2 
Gear selection and shift point determination for vehicles equipped with 
manual transmissions 
1.0 
GENERAL APPROACH 
1.1 
The shifting procedures described in this annex shall apply to vehicles equipped 
with manual shift transmissions. 
1.2 
The prescribed gears and shifting points are based on the balance between the 
power required to overcome driving resistance and acceleration, and the power 
provided by the engine in all possible gears at a specific cycle phase. 
1.3 
The calculation to determine the gears to use shall be based on engine speeds and 
full load power curves versus engine speed. 
1.4 
For vehicles equipped with a dual-range transmission (low and high), only the 
range designed for normal on-road operation shall be considered for gear use 
determination. 
1.5 
The prescriptions for clutch operation shall not be applied if the clutch is operated 
automatically without the need of an engagement or disengagement of the driver. 
1.6 
This annex shall not apply to vehicles tested according to Annex B8. 
2.0 
Required data and precalculations 
The following data are required and calculations shall be performed in order to 
determine the gears to be used when driving the cycle on a chassis dynamometer: 
 
(a) 
𝑷𝒓𝒂𝒕𝒆𝒅, the maximum rated engine power as declared by the manufacturer, 
kW; 
(b) 
nrated, the rated engine speed declared by the manufacturer as the engine 
speed at which the engine develops its maximum power, min-1; 
(c) 
𝑛𝑖𝑑𝑙𝑒, idling speed, min-1. 
nidle shall be measured over a period of at least 1 minute at a sampling rate 
of at least 1 Hz with the engine running in warm condition, the gear lever 
placed in neutral, and the clutch engaged. The conditions for temperature, 
peripheral and auxiliary devices, etc. shall be the same as described in 
Annex B6 for the Type I test. 
The value to be used in this annex shall be the arithmetic average over the 
measuring period and rounded according to paragraph 6.1.8. of this 
Regulation to the nearest 10 min-1; 
(d) 
ng, the number of forward gears. 



--- PAGE 153 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 153 of 762 
 
The forward gears in the transmission range designed for normal on-road 
operation shall be numbered in descending order of the ratio between 
engine speed in min-1 and vehicle speed in km/h. Gear 1 is the gear with 
the highest ratio, gear ng is the gear with the lowest ratio. ng determines 
the number of forward gears; 
(e) 
(n/v)i, the ratio obtained by dividing the engine speed n by the vehicle 
speed v for each gear i, for i = 1 to ng, min-1/(km/h). (n/v)i shall be 
calculated according to the equations in paragraph 8. of Annex B7; 
(f) 
𝒇𝟎, 𝒇𝟏, 𝒇𝟐, road load coefficients selected for testing, N, N/(km/h), and 
N/(km/h)² respectively; 
(g) 
nmaxnmax1 = n95_high, the maximum engine speed where 95 per cent of rated 
power is reached, min – 1; 
If n95_high cannot be determined because the engine speed is limited to a 
lower value nlim for all gears and the corresponding full load power is 
higher than 95 per cent of rated power, n95_high shall be set to nlim.  
nmax2 = (n/v)( ngvmax) × vmax,cycle 
nmax3 = (n/v)( ngvmax) × vmax,vehicle 
where: 
vmax,cycle is the maximum speed of the vehicle speed trace according to 
Annex B1, km/h; 
vmax,vehicle is the maximum speed of the vehicle according to paragraph 2.(i) 
of this annex, km/h; 
(n/v)(ngvmax) is the ratio obtained by dividing engine speed n by the vehicle 
speed v for the gear ngvmax, min-1/(km/h ); 
ngvmax is defined in paragraph 2.(i) of this annex; 
nmax is the maximum of nmax1, nmax2 and nmax3, min-1. 
(h) 
Pwot(n), the full load power curve over the engine speed range 
The power curve shall consist of a sufficient number of data sets (n, Pwot) 
so that the calculation of interim points between consecutive data sets can 
be performed by linear interpolation. Deviation of the linear interpolation 
from the full load power curve according to CMVR shall not exceed 
2 per cent. The first data set shall be at nmin_drive_set (see (k)(3) below) or 
lower. The last data set shall be at nmax or higher engine speed. Data sets 
need not be spaced equally but all data sets shall be reported.  
The data sets and the values Prated and nrated shall be taken from the power 
curve as declared by the manufacturer. 



--- PAGE 154 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 154 of 762 
 
(i) 
Determination of ngvmax and vmax 
ngvmax, the gear in which the maximum vehicle speed is reached and shall 
be determined as follows: 
If vmax(ng) ≥ vmax(ng-1) and vmax(ng-1) ≥ vmax(ng-2), then: 
ngvmax = ng and vmax = vmax(ng). 
If vmax(ng) < vmax(ng-1) and vmax(ng-1) ≥ vmax(ng-2), then: 
ngvmax = ng-1 and vmax = vmax(ng-1), 
otherwise, ngvmax = ng -2 and vmax = vmax(ng-2) 
where: 
vmax(ng)  
is the vehicle speed at which the required road load power 
equals the available power Pwot in gear ng (see Figure A2/1a). 
vmax(ng-1)  is the vehicle speed at which the required road load power 
equals the available power Pwot in the next lower gear (gear ng-1). See 
Figure A2/1b. 
vmax(ng-2)  is the vehicle speed at which the required road load power 
equals the available power Pwot in the gear              ng-2. 
Vehicle speed values rounded according to paragraph 6.1.8. of this 
Regulation to one place of decimal shall be used for the determination of 
vmax and ngvmax. 
The required road load power, kW, shall be calculated using the following 
equation: 
𝑃𝑟𝑒𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑟𝑒𝑑= (𝑓0 × 𝑣) + (𝑓1 × 𝑣2) + (𝑓2 × 𝑣³)
3600
 
 
where: 
v is the vehicle speed specified above, km/h. 
The available power at vehicle speed vmax in gear ng, gear ng - 1 or gear 
ng-2 shall be determined from the full load power curve, Pwot(n), by using 
the following equations:  
nng = (n/v)ng × vmax(ng); 
nng-1 = (n/v)ng-1 × vmax(ng-1); 
nng-2 = (n/v)ng-2 × vmax(ng-2), 
 



--- PAGE 155 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 155 of 762 
 
and by reducing the power values of the full load power curve by 
10 per cent. 
The method described above shall be extended to even lower gears, i.e. 
ng- 3, ng-4, etc. if necessary. 
If, for the purpose of limiting maximum vehicle speed, the maximum 
engine speed is limited to nlim which is lower than the engine speed 
corresponding to the intersection of the road load power curve and the 
available power curve, then: 
ngvmax = ng and vmax = nlim / (n/v)(ng). 
 
Figure A2/1a 
An example where ngvmax is the highest gear 
 
Figure A2/1b 
An example where ngvmax is the 2nd highest gear 
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100 110 120 130 140 150 160 170 180 190 200 210
P in kW
vehicle speed in km/h
Pres
0.9*Pwot, gear 1
0.9*Pwot, gear 2
0.9*Pwot, gear 3
0.9*Pwot, gear 4
0.9*Pwot, gear 5
0.9*Pwot, gear 6
vmax(gear 6)
vmax(gear 5)
ngvmax = 6



--- PAGE 156 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 156 of 762 
 
 
 
(j) 
Exclusion of a crawler gear 
Gear 1 may be excluded at the request of the manufacturer if all of the 
following conditions are fulfilled: 
(1)  The vehicle family is homologated to tow a trailer; 
(2) 
(n/v)1 × (vmax / n95_high) > 6.74; 
(3) 
(n/v)2 × (vmax / n95_high) > 3.85; 
(4) 
The vehicle, having a mass mt as defined in the equation below, is able 
to pull away from standstill within 4 seconds, on an uphill gradient of at least 
12 per cent, on five separate occasions within a period of 5 minutes.  
mt = mr0 + 25 kg + (MC – mr0 – 25 kg) × 0.28  
(factor 0.28 in the above equation shall be used for category 2 vehicles with 
a gross vehicle mass up to 3.5 tons and shall be replaced by factor 0.15 in the 
case of category 1 vehicles), 
where: 
vmax is the maximum vehicle speed as specified in paragraph 2. (i) of this 
annex. Only the vmax value resulting from the intersection of the required road 
load power curve and the available power curve of the relevant gear shall be 
used for the conditions in (2) and (3) above. A vmax value resulting from a 
limitation of the engine speed which prevents this intersection of curves shall 
not be used;  
(n/v)(ngvmax) is the ratio obtained by dividing the engine speed n by the 
vehicle speed v for gear ngvmax, min-1/(km/h); 
mr0 is the mass in running order, kg; 
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100 110 120 130 140 150 160 170 180 190 200 210
Pwot in kW
vehicle speed in km/h
Pres
0.9*Pwot, gear 1
0.9*Pwot, gear 2
0.9*Pwot, gear 3
0.9*Pwot, gear 4
0.9*Pwot, gear 5
0.9*Pwot, gear 6
vmax(gear 6)
vmax(gear 5)
ngvmax = 5



--- PAGE 157 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 157 of 762 
 
MC is the technically permissible maximum laden mass of the combination 
(see paragraph 3.2.27. of this Regulation), kg. 
In this case, gear 1 shall not be used when driving the cycle on a chassis 
dynamometer and the gears shall be renumbered starting with the second gear 
as gear 1.  
(k) Definition of nmin_drive 
nmin_drive is the minimum engine speed when the vehicle is in motion, min-1; 
 
(1) For ngear = 1, nmin_drive = nidle, 
 
(2) For ngear = 2, 
 
 
(i) for transitions from first to second gear: 
nmin_drive = 1.15 ×nidle, 
(ii) for decelerations to standstill: 
nmin_drive = nidle, 
(iii) for all other driving conditions: 
nmin_drive = 0.9 × nidle. 
 
(3) For ngear > 2, nmin_drive shall be determined by: 
nmin_drive = nidle + 0.125 × (nrated -nidle). 
This value shall be referred to as nmin_drive_set. 
 
nmin_drive_set shall be rounded according to paragraph 6.1.8. of this Regulation 
to the nearest integer.  
Values higher than nmin_drive_set may be used for ngear > 2 if requested by the 
manufacturer. In this case, the manufacturer may specify one value for 
acceleration/constant speed phases (nmin_drive_up) and a different value for 
deceleration phases (nmin_drive_down).  
Samples which have acceleration values ≥ -0.1389 m/s² shall belong to the 
acceleration/constant speed phases. This phase specification shall only be 
used for the determination of the initial gear according to paragraph 3.5. of 
this annex and shall not be applied to the requirements specified in 
paragraph 4. of this annex. 
In addition, for an initial period of time (tstart_phase), the manufacturer may 
specify higher values (nmin_drive_start or nmin_drive_up_start and nmin_drive_down_start) for 
the values nmin_drive or nmin_drive_up and nmin_drive_down for ngear > 2 than specified 
above.  



--- PAGE 158 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 158 of 762 
 
The initial time period shall be specified by the manufacturer but shall not 
exceed the low speed phase of the cycle and shall end in a stop phase so that 
there is no change of nmin_drive within a short trip. 
All individually chosen nmin_drive values shall be equal to or higher than 
nmin_drive_set but shall not exceed (2 × nmin_drive_set). 
All individually chosen nmin_drive values and tstart_phase shall be recorded. 
Only nmin_drive_set shall be used as the lower limit for the full load power curve 
according to paragraph 2(h) above. 
(l)  𝑇𝑀, test mass of the vehicle, kg. 
3.0 
Calculations of required power, engine speeds, available power, and possible 
gear to be used 
3.1 
Calculation of required power 
For each second j of the cycle trace, the power required to overcome driving 
resistance and to accelerate shall be calculated using the following equation: 
𝑃𝑟𝑒𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑟𝑒𝑑,𝑗= (
(𝑓0 × 𝑣𝑗) + (𝑓1 × 𝑣𝑗
2) + (𝑓2 × 𝑣𝑗
3)
3600
) + (𝑘𝑟× 𝑎𝑗× 𝑣𝑗× 𝑇𝑀)
3600
 
where: 
𝑃𝑟𝑒𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑟𝑒𝑑,𝑗 is the required power at second j, kW; 
𝑎𝑗 is the vehicle acceleration at second j, m/s², and is calculated as follows: 
𝑎𝑗=
(𝑣𝑗+1−𝑣𝑗)
3.6×(𝑡𝑗+1−𝑡𝑗);  
j = tstart to tend – 1, 
tstart is the time at which the applicable test cycle starts (see paragraph 3 of Annex 
B1 of this Regulation), s; 
tend is the time at which the applicable test cycle ends (see paragraph 3 of Annex 
B1 of this Regulation), s; 
The acceleration value at second tend (second 1611 for class 1 cycle and 
second 1800 for class 2 and 3 cycles) may be set to 0 in order to avoid empty cells. 
𝑘𝑟 is a factor taking the inertial resistances of the drivetrain during acceleration 
into account and is set to 1.03. 
3.2 
Determination of engine speeds 
For any 𝑣𝑗 <  1.0 km/h, it shall be assumed that the vehicle is standing still and 
the engine speed shall be set to 𝑛𝑖𝑑𝑙𝑒.The gear lever shall be placed in neutral with 



--- PAGE 159 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 159 of 762 
 
the clutch engaged except 1 second before beginning an acceleration from 
standstill where first gear shall be selected with the clutch disengaged. 
For each 𝑣𝑗 ≥ 1.0 km/h of the cycle trace and each gear i, 𝑖 =  1 to ng the engine 
speed, 𝑛𝑖,𝑗, shall be calculated using the following equation: 
𝑛𝑖,𝑗= (𝑛/𝑣)𝑖× 𝑣𝑗  
The calculation shall be performed with floating point numbers; the results shall 
not be rounded. 
3.3 
Selection of possible gears with respect to engine speed 
The following gears may be selected for driving the speed trace at vj: 
 
(a) 
All gears i < ngvmax where nmin_drive ≤ ni,j ≤ nmax1; 
(b) All gears i ≥ ngvmax where nmin_drive ≤ ni,j ≤ nmax2; 
(c) 
Gear 1, if n1,j < nmin_drive. 
If aj < 0 and ni,j ≤ nidle, ni,j shall be set to nidle and the clutch shall be disengaged. 
If aj ≥ 0 and ni,j < max(1.15 × nidle ; min. engine speed of the Pwot(n) curve), ni,j shall 
be set to the maximum of (1.15 × nidle) or the min. engine speed of the Pwot(n) curve, 
and the clutch shall be set to “undefined”.  
“Undefined” covers any status of the clutch between disengaged and engaged, 
depending on the individual engine and transmission design. In such a case, the 
real engine speed may deviate from the calculated engine speed.  
With regard to the definition of nmin_drive in paragraph 2 (k) the requirements (a) to 
(c) specified above can be expressed as follows for deceleration phases: 
During a deceleration phase, gears with ngear > 2 shall be used as long as the engine 
speed does not drop below nmin_drive.  
Gear 2 shall be used during a deceleration phase within a short trip of the cycle 
(not at the end of a short trip) as long as the engine speed does not drop below (0.9 
× nidle).  
If the engine speed drops below nidle, the clutch shall be disengaged. 
If the deceleration phase is the last part of a short trip shortly before a stop phase, 
the second gear shall be used as long as the engine speed does not drop below nidle. 
This requirement shall be applied to the whole deceleration phase ending at 
standstill. 
A deceleration phase is a time period of more than 2 seconds with a vehicle speed 
≥ 1.0 km/h and with strictly monotonic decrease of vehicle speed (see paragraph 4. 
of this annex). 



--- PAGE 160 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 160 of 762 
 
3.4 
Calculation of available power 
For each engine speed value nk of the full load power curve as specified in 
paragraph 2 (h) of this annex the available power, Pavailable_k, shall be calculated 
using the following equation: 
𝑃𝑎𝑣𝑎𝑖𝑙𝑎𝑏𝑙𝑒_𝑘= 𝑃𝑤𝑜𝑡 (𝑛𝑘) × (1 −(𝑆𝑀+ 𝐴𝑆𝑀)) 
where: 
𝑃𝑤𝑜𝑡 is the power available at nk at full load condition from the full load power 
curve; 
𝑆𝑀 is a safety margin accounting for the difference between the stationary full 
load condition power curve and the power available during transition conditions. 
SM shall be set to 10 per cent; 
ASM is an additional power safety margin which may be applied at the request of 
the manufacturer.  
When requested, the manufacturer shall provide the ASM values (in per cent 
reduction of the wot power) together with data sets for Pwot(n) as shown by the 
example in Table A2/1. Linear interpolation shall be used between consecutive 
data points. ASM is limited to 50 per cent. 
The application of an ASM requires the approval of the Test Agency. 
 
Table A2/1 
 
n 
Pwot 
SM 
per cent 
ASM 
per cent 
Pavailable 
min-1 
kW 
kW 
700 
6.3 
10.0 
20.0 
4.4 
1000 
15.7 
10.0 
20.0 
11.0 
1500 
32.3 
10.0 
15.0 
24.2 
1800 
56.6 
10.0 
10.0 
45.3 
1900 
59.7 
10.0 
5.0 
50.8 
2000 
62.9 
10.0 
0.0 
56.6 
3000 
94.3 
10.0 
0.0 
84.9 
4000 
125.7 
10.0 
0.0 
113.2 
5000 
157.2 
10.0 
0.0 
141.5 
5700 
179.2 
10.0 
0.0 
161.3 



--- PAGE 161 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 161 of 762 
 
5800 
180.1 
10.0 
0.0 
162.1 
6000 
174.7 
10.0 
0.0 
157.3 
6200 
169.0 
10.0 
0.0 
152.1 
6400 
164.3 
10.0 
0.0 
147.8 
6600 
156.4 
10.0 
0.0 
140.8 
 
For each possible gear i and each vehicle speed value of the cycle trace 𝑣𝑗 (j as 
specified in paragraph 3.1 of this annex) and each engine speed value ni,j ≥ nmin of 
the full load power curve the available power shall be calculated from adjacent nk, 
Pavailable_k values of the full load power curve by linear interpolation. 
3.5 
Determination of possible gears to be used 
The possible gears to be used shall be determined by the following conditions: 
 
(a) 
The conditions of paragraph 3.3. of this annex are fulfilled, and 
 
(b) For ngear > 2, if 𝑃𝑎𝑣𝑎𝑖𝑙𝑎𝑏𝑙𝑒_𝑖,𝑗≥ 𝑃𝑟𝑒𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑟𝑒𝑑,𝑗. 
The initial gear to be used for each second 𝑗 of the cycle trace is the highest 
final possible gear, imax. When starting from standstill, only the first gear shall 
be used. 
The lowest final possible gear is imin. 
4.0 
Additional requirements for corrections and/or modifications of gear use 
The initial gear selection shall be checked and modified in order to avoid too 
frequent gearshifts and to ensure driveability and practicality. 
An acceleration phase is a time period of more than 2 seconds with a vehicle speed 
≥ 1.0 km/h and with strictly monotonic increase of vehicle speed. A deceleration 
phase is a time period of more than 2 seconds with a vehicle speed ≥ 1.0 km/h and 
with strictly monotonic decrease of vehicle speed. A constant speed phase is a time 
period of more than 2 seconds with a constant vehicle speed ≥ 1.0 km/h.  
The end of an acceleration/deceleration phase is determined by the last time sample 
in which the vehicle speed is higher/lower than the vehicle speed of the previous 
time sample. In this context the end of a deceleration phase could be the beginning 
of an acceleration phase. In this case the requirements for acceleration phases 
overrule the requirements for deceleration phases. 
Corrections and/or modifications shall be made according to the following 
requirements: 



--- PAGE 162 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 162 of 762 
 
The modification check described in paragraph 4.(a) of this annex shall be applied 
to the complete cycle trace twice prior to the application of paragraphs 4.(b) to 4.(f) 
of this annex. 
 
(a) 
If a one step higher gear (n+1) is required for only 1 second and the gears 
before and after are the same (n) or one of them is one step lower (n – 1), gear 
(n + 1) shall be corrected to gear n. 
Examples: 
Gear sequence i - 1, i, i - 1 shall be replaced by: 
i - 1, i - 1, i - 1; 
Gear sequence i - 1, i, i - 2 shall be replaced by: 
i - 1, i - 1, i - 2; 
Gear sequence i - 2, i, i - 1 shall be replaced by:  
i - 2, i - 1, i - 1.  
If, during acceleration or constant speed phases or transitions from constant 
speed to acceleration or acceleration to constant speed phases where these 
phases only contain upshifts, a gear is used for only one second, the gear in 
the following second shall be corrected to the gear before, so that a gear is 
used for at least 2 seconds. 
Examples:  
Gear sequence 1, 2, 3, 3, 3, 3, 3 shall be replaced by: 
1, 1, 2, 2, 3, 3, 3. 
Gear sequence 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 5, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6 shall be replaced by: 
1, 1, 2, 2, 3, 3, 4, 4, 5, 5, 6. 
This requirement shall not be applied to downshifts during an acceleration 
phase or if the use of a gear for just one second follows immediately after 
such a downshift or if the downshift occurs right at the beginning of an 
acceleration phase. In these cases, the downshifts shall be first corrected 
according to paragraph 4.(b) of this annex. 
Example: 
Gear sequence 4, 4, 3, 4, 5, 5, 5, where the first second or the third second 
determines the start of an acceleration phase and where paragraph 4.(b) does 
not apply in the further course of the acceleration phase, shall be replaced by: 
4, 4, 4, 4, 5, 5, 5. 



--- PAGE 163 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 163 of 762 
 
However, if the gear at the beginning of an acceleration phase is one step 
lower than the gear in the previous second and the gears in the following (up 
to five) seconds are the same as the gear in the previous second but followed 
by a downshift, so that the application of paragraph 4.(c) would correct them 
to the same gear as at the beginning of the acceleration phase, the application 
of paragraph 4.(c) should be performed instead. 
Example: 
For a speed trace sequence 
19.6 18.3 18.0 18.3 18.5 17.9 15.0 km/h 
with an initial gear use of 
3 
3 
2 
3 
3 
2 
2, 
the gears in the fourth and fifth second shall be corrected to a one step lower 
gear (which would be done by an application of paragraph 4.(c)) instead of a 
correction of the gear at the beginning of the acceleration phase (second 
three), so that the correction results in the following gear sequence 
3 
3 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
Furthermore, if the gear in the first second of an acceleration phase is the 
same as the gear in the previous second and the gear in the following seconds 
is one step higher, the gear in the 2nd second of the acceleration phase shall 
be replaced by the gear used in the first second of the acceleration phase. 
Example: 
For a speed trace sequence 
30.9 25.5 21.4 20.2 22.9 26.6 30.2 km/h 
with an initial gear use of 
3 
3 
2 
2 
3 
3 
3, 
the gear in the fifth second (the 2nd second of the acceleration phase) shall be 
corrected to a one step lower gear in order to ensure the use of a gear within 
the acceleration phase for at least two seconds, so that the correction results 
in the following gear sequence 
3 
3 
2 
2 
2 
3 
3 
Gears shall not be skipped during upshifts within acceleration phases. 
However, an upshift by two gears is permitted at the transition from an 
acceleration phase to a constant speed phase if the duration of the constant 
speed phase exceeds 5 seconds. 



--- PAGE 164 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 164 of 762 
 
 
(b) If a downshift is required during an acceleration phase or at the beginning of 
the acceleration phase, the gear required during this downshift shall be noted 
(iDS). The starting point of a correction procedure is defined by either the last 
previous second when iDS was identified or by the starting point of the 
acceleration phase if all time samples before have gears > iDS. The highest 
gear of the time samples before the downshift determines the reference gear 
iref for the downshift. A downshift where iDS = iref – 1 is referred to as a one 
step downshift, a downshift where iDS = iref – 2 is referred to as a two step 
downshift, a downshift where iDS = iref – 3 is referred to as a three step 
downshift. The following check shall then be applied. 
 
(i) 
One step downshift 
 
 
Working forward from the starting point of the correction procedure to 
the end of the acceleration phase, the latest occurrence of a 10 second 
window containing iDS for either 2 or more consecutive seconds, or 2 
or more individual seconds, shall be identified. The last usage of iDS in 
this window defines the end point of the correction procedure. Between 
the start and end of the correction period, all requirements for gears 
greater than iDS shall be corrected to a requirement of iDS. 
From the end of the correction period (in case of 10 second windows 
containing iDS for either 2 or more consecutive seconds, or 2 or more 
individual seconds) or from the starting point of the correction 
procedure (in case that all 10 second windows contain iDS only for one 
second or some 10 second windows contain no iDS at all) to the end of 
the acceleration phase all downshifts with a duration of only one second 
shall be removed. 
 
(ii) 
Two or three step downshifts 
 
 
Working forward from the starting point of the correction procedure to 
the end of the acceleration phase, the latest occurrence of iDS shall be 
identified. From the starting point of the correction procedure all 
requirements for gears greater than or equal to iDS up to the latest 
occurrence of iDS shall be corrected to (iDS + 1). 
 
(iii) One step down shifts and two step and/or three step downshifts 
 
 
 
If one step downshifts as well as two step and/or three step downshifts 
occur during an acceleration phase, three step downshifts shall be 
corrected before two or one step downshifts are corrected and two step 
downshifts shall be corrected before one step downshifts are corrected. 
In such cases, the starting point of the correction procedure for the two 
or one step downshifts is the second immediately following the end of 
the correction period for the three step downshifts and the starting point 
of the correction procedure for the one step downshifts is the second 
immediately following the end of the correction period for the two step 
downshifts. If a three step downshift occurs after a one or two step 
downshift, it shall overrule these downshifts in the time period before 
the three step downshift. If a two step downshift occurs after a one step 



--- PAGE 165 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 165 of 762 
 
downshift, it shall overrule the one step downshift in the time period 
before the two step downshift. Examples are shown in Tables A2/2 to 
A2/6. 
Table A2/2 
 
Table A2/3 
 
Table A2/4 
 
Table A2/5 



--- PAGE 166 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 166 of 762 
 
 
Table A2/6 
 
 
 
This correction shall not be performed for gear 1. The requirements of the 3rd 
sub-paragraph of paragraph 3.3. (If aj ≥ 0…..) shall not be applied for gear 
corrections described in this paragraph for gears > 2. 
The modification check described in paragraph 4.(c) of this annex shall be 
applied to the complete cycle trace twice prior to the application of 
paragraphs 4.(d) to 4.(f) of this annex. 
(c) 
If gear 𝑖 is used for a time sequence of 1 to 5 seconds and the gear prior to 
this sequence is one step lower and the gear after this sequence is one or two 
steps lower than within this sequence or the gear prior to this sequence is two 
steps lower and the gear after this sequence is one step lower than within the 
sequence, the gear for the sequence shall be corrected to the maximum of the 
gears before and after the sequence. 
 
Examples: 
 
(i) 
Gear sequence i -1, 𝑖, i -1 shall be replaced by: 
i -1, i -1, i -1; 
Gear sequence i - 1, i, i - 2 shall be replaced by:  
i - 1, i - 1, i - 2;  



--- PAGE 167 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 167 of 762 
 
Gear sequence i - 2, i, i - 1 shall be replaced by:  
i - 2, i - 1, i - 1. 
 
(ii) Gear sequence i - 1, 𝑖, 𝑖, i - 1 shall be replaced by: 
i - 1, i - 1, i - 1, i - 1; 
Gear sequence i - 1, i, i, i - 2 shall be replaced by:  
 i- 1, i - 1, i - 1, i - 2;  
Gear sequence i - 2, i, i, i - 1 shall be replaced by:  
i - 2, i - 1, i - 1, i - 1. 
 
 
(iii) Gear sequence i - 1, 𝑖, 𝑖, 𝑖, i - 1shall be replaced by: 
i – 1, i – 1, i – 1, i – 1, i - 1; 
Gear sequence i-1, i, i, i, i - 2 shall be replaced by:  
i - 1, i - 1, i - 1, i - 1, i - 2;  
Gear sequence i - 2, i, i, i, i - 1 shall be replaced by: 
i - 2, i - 1, i - 1, i - 1, i - 1. 
 
 
(iv) Gear sequence i - 1, 𝑖, 𝑖, 𝑖, 𝑖, i - 1 shall be replaced by: 
i - 1, i - 1, i - 1, i - 1, i - 1, i - 1; 
Gear sequence i - 1, i, i, i, i, i - 2 shall be replaced by:  
i - 1, i - 1, i - 1, i - 1, i - 1, i - 2;  
Gear sequence i - 2, i, i, i, i, i - 1 shall be replaced by:  
i - 2, i - 1, i - 1, i - 1, i - 1, i - 1. 
 
(v) 
Gear sequence i - 1, 𝑖, 𝑖, 𝑖, 𝑖, 𝑖, i - 1 shall be replaced by: 
i - 1, i - 1, i - 1, i - 1, i - 1, i – 1, i - 1; 
Gear sequence i-1, i, i, i, i, i, i - 2 shall be replaced by:  
i - 1, i - 1, i - 1, i - 1, i - 1, i - 1, i - 2;  
Gear sequence i - 2, i, i, i, i, i, i - 1 shall be replaced by:  
i - 2, i - 1, i - 1, i - 1, i - 1, i - 1, i - 1. 
In all cases (i) to (v), i-1 ≥ imin shall be fulfilled. 



--- PAGE 168 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 168 of 762 
 
(d) No upshift to a higher gear shall be performed within a deceleration phase. 
 (e) No upshift to a higher gear at the transition from an acceleration or constant 
speed phase to a deceleration phase shall be performed if one of the gears in 
the first two seconds following the end of the deceleration phase is lower than 
the upshifted gear or is gear 0.  
Example:  
If vi ≤ vi+1 and vi+2 < vi+1 and gear i = 4 and gear (i + 1 = 5) and gear (i + 2 = 
5), then gear (i + 1) and gear (i + 2) shall be set to 4 if the gear for the phase 
following the deceleration phase is gear 4 or lower. For all following cycle 
trace points with gear 5 within the deceleration phase, the gear shall also be 
set to 4. If the gear following the deceleration phase is gear 5, an upshift shall 
be performed.  
If there is an upshift during the transition and the initial deceleration phase 
by 2 gears, an upshift by 1 gear shall be performed instead. In this case, no 
further modifications shall be performed in the following gear use checks. 
 
(f) Other gear modifications for deceleration phases 
A downshift to first gear is not permitted during deceleration phases. If such 
a downshift would be necessary in the last part of a short trip just before a 
stop phase, since the engine speed would drop below nidle in 2nd gear, gear 0 
shall be used instead and the gear lever shall be placed in neutral and the 
clutch shall be engaged. 
If the first gear is required in a time period of at least 2 seconds immediately 
before a deceleration to stop, this gear should be used until the first sample 
of the deceleration phase. For the rest of the deceleration phase, gear 0 shall 
be used and the gear lever shall be placed in neutral and the clutch shall be 
engaged. 
If during a deceleration phase the duration of a gear period (a time sequence 
with constant gear) between two gear periods of 3 seconds or more is only 1 
second, it shall be replaced by gear 0 and the clutch shall be disengaged.  
If during a deceleration phase the duration of a gear period between two gear 
periods of 3 seconds or more is 2 seconds, it shall be replaced by gear 0 for 
the 1st second and for the 2nd second with the gear that follows after the 2 
second period. The clutch shall be disengaged for the 1st second.  
Example: A gear sequence 5, 4, 4, 2 shall be replaced by 5, 0, 2, 2.  
This requirement shall only be applied if the gear that follows after the 2 
second period is > 0. 
If several gear periods with durations of 1 or 2 seconds follow one another, 
corrections shall be performed as follows: 



--- PAGE 169 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 169 of 762 
 
A gear sequence i, i, i, i - 1, i - 1, i - 2 or i, i, i, i - 1, i - 2, i - 2 shall be changed 
to i, i, i, 0, i - 2, i - 2.  
A gear sequence such as i, i, i, i - 1, i - 2, i - 3 or i, i, i, i - 2, i - 2, i - 3 or other 
possible combinations shall be changed to i, i, i, 0, i - 3, i - 3. 
This change shall also be applied to gear sequences where the acceleration is 
≥ 0 for the first 2 seconds and < 0 for the 3rd second or where the acceleration 
is ≥ 0 for the last 2 seconds. 
For extreme transmission designs, it is possible that gear periods with 
durations of 1 or 2 seconds following one another may last up to 7 seconds. 
In such cases, the correction above shall be complemented by the following 
correction requirements in a second step. 
A gear sequence j, 0, i, i, i - 1, k with j > (i + 1) and k ≤ (i – 1) but k > 0 shall 
be changed to j, 0, i - 1, i - 1, i - 1, k, if gear (i – 1) is one or two steps below 
imax for second 3 of this sequence (one after gear 0).  
If gear (i – 1) is more than two steps below imax for second 3 of this sequence, 
a gear sequence j, 0, i, i, i - 1, k with j > (i + 1) and  
k ≤ (i –1) but k > 0 shall be changed to j, 0, 0, k, k, k.  
A gear sequence j, 0, i, i, i-2, k with j > (i + 1) and k ≤ (i – 2) but k > 0 shall 
be changed to j, 0, i - 2, i - 2 , i - 2, k, if gear (i – 2) is one or two steps below 
imax for second 3 of this sequence (one after gear 0).  
If gear (i – 2) is more than two steps below imax for second 3 of this sequence, 
a gear sequence j, 0, i, i, i - 2, k with j > (i + 1) and  
k ≤ (i – 2) but k > 0 shall be changed to j, 0, 0, k, k, k. 
In all cases specified above in this sub-paragraph (paragraph 4.(f) of this 
annex), the clutch disengagement (gear 0) for 1 second is used in order to 
avoid too high engine speeds for this second. If this is not an issue and, if 
requested by the manufacturer, it is allowed to use the lower gear of the 
following second directly instead of gear 0 for downshifts of up to 3 steps. 
The use of this option shall be recorded. 
If the deceleration phase is the last part of a short trip shortly before a stop 
phase and the last gear > 0 before the stop phase is used only for a period of 
up to 2 seconds, gear 0 shall be used instead and the gear lever shall be placed 
in neutral and the clutch shall be engaged. 
Examples: A gear sequence of 4, 0, 2, 2, 0 for the last 5 seconds before a stop 
phase shall be replaced by 4, 0, 0, 0, 0. A gear sequence of 4, 3, 3, 0 for the 
last 4 seconds before a stop phase shall be replaced by 4, 0, 0, 0. 
5.0 
FINAL REQUIREMENTS 
 
(a) Paragraphs 4.(a) to 4.(f) inclusive of this annex shall be applied sequentially, 
scanning the complete cycle trace in each case. Since modifications to 
paragraphs 4.(a) to 4.(f) inclusive of this annex may create new gear use 



--- PAGE 170 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 170 of 762 
 
 
 
sequences, these new gear sequences shall be checked twice and modified if 
necessary. 
(b) After the application of paragraph 4.(b) of this annex, a downshift by more 
than one gear could occur at the transition from a deceleration or constant 
speed phase to an acceleration phase.  
In this case, the gear for the last sample of the deceleration or constant speed 
phase shall be replaced by gear 0 and the clutch shall be disengaged. If the 
“suppress gear 0 during downshifts” option according to paragraph 4.(f) of 
this annex is chosen, the gear of the following second (first second of the 
acceleration phase) shall be used instead of gear 0. 
(c) In order to enable the assessment of the correctness of the calculation, the 
checksum of v*gear for v ≥ 1.0 km/h, rounded according to paragraph 6.1.8. 
of this Regulation to four places of decimal, shall be calculated and recorded. 
6.0 
Calculation tools  
  
Examples of gear shift calculating tools can be found in the same webpage (version 
published & updated as on 22/01/2021) as this UN GTR regulation.  
The following tools are provided: 
(a)   ACCESS based tool, 
(b)   Matlab code tool 
(c)   NET core tool 
These tools were validated by the comparison of calculation results between the 
ACCESS tool, the Matlab code and the .NET core code for 115 different vehicle 
configurations supplemented by additional calculations for 7 of them with 
additional options like “apply speed cap”, “suppress downscaling”, “choose other 
vehicle class cycle” and “choose individual nmin_drive values”.  
The 115 vehicle configurations cover extreme technical designs for transmission 
and engines and all vehicle classes.  
All three tools deliver identical results with respect to gear use and clutch operation 
and although only the text in Annexes 1 and 2 is legally binding the tools have 
achieved a status that qualifies them as reference tools. 



--- PAGE 171 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 171 of 762 
 
Annex B3 
Specifications of reference fuels 
1. 
The appropriate reference fuel as prescribed in the applicable Gazette 
Notification under CMVR shall be used. 
 
 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 172 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 172 of 762 
 
 
Annex B4 
Road load and dynamometer setting 
1.0 
Scope 
This annex describes the determination of the road load of a test vehicle and 
the transfer of that road load to a chassis dynamometer.  
2.0 
Terms and definitions 
2.1 
For the purpose of this document, the terms and definitions given in 
paragraph 3. of this Regulation shall have primacy. Where definitions are not 
provided in paragraph 3. of this Regulation, definitions given in 
ISO 3833:1977 "Road vehicles -- Types -- Terms and definitions" shall apply. 
2.2. 
Reference speed points shall start at 20 km/h in incremental steps of 10 km/h 
and with the highest reference speed according to the following provisions: 
 
(a) 
The highest reference speed point shall be 130 km/h or 100 km/h or the 
reference speed point immediately above the maximum speed of the 
applicable test cycle if this value is less than 130 km/h At the request of 
the manufacturer and with approval of the Test Agency, the highest 
reference speed may be increased to the reference speed point 
immediately above the maximum speed of the next higher phase, but no 
higher than 130 km/h; in this case road load determination and chassis 
dynamometer setting shall be done with the same reference speed points; 
(b) 
If a reference speed point applicable for the cycle plus 14 km/h is more 
than or equal to the maximum vehicle speed vmax, this reference speed 
point shall be excluded from the coastdown test and from chassis 
dynamometer setting. The next lower reference speed point shall 
become the highest reference speed point for the vehicle. 
2.3 
Unless otherwise specified, a cycle energy demand shall be calculated 
according to paragraph 5. of Annex B7 over the target speed trace of the 
applicable drive cycle. 
2.4 
f0, f1, f2 are the road load coefficients of the road load equation 
F = f0 + f1 × v + f2 × v2 determined according to this annex. 
 
f0 
is the constant road load coefficient and shall be rounded according to 
paragraph 6.1.8. of this Regulation to one place of decimal, N; 
 
f1 
is the first order road load coefficient and shall be rounded according 
to paragraph 6.1.8. of this Regulation to three places of decimal, 
N/(km/h); 
 
f2 
is the second order road load coefficient and shall be rounded according 
to paragraph 6.1.8. of this Regulation to five places of decimal, 
N/(km/h)². 



--- PAGE 173 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 173 of 762 
 
 
Unless otherwise stated, the road load coefficients shall be calculated with a 
least square regression analysis over the range of the reference speed points. 
2.5 
Rotational mass 
2.5.1 
Determination of mr 
mr is the equivalent effective mass of all the wheels and vehicle components 
rotating with the wheels on the road while the gearbox is placed in neutral, in 
kilograms (kg). mr shall be measured or calculated using an appropriate 
technique agreed upon by the Test Agency. Alternatively, mr may be estimated 
to be 3 per cent of the sum of the mass in running order and 25 kg. 
2.5.2 
Application of rotational mass to the road load 
Coastdown times shall be transferred to forces and vice versa by taking into 
account the applicable test mass plus mr. This shall apply to measurements on 
the road as well as on a chassis dynamometer. 
2.5.3 
Application of rotational mass for the inertia setting 
If the vehicle is tested on a dynamometer in 4WD operation, the equivalent 
inertia mass of the chassis dynamometer shall be set to the applicable test 
mass.' 
Otherwise, the equivalent inertia mass of the chassis dynamometer shall be set 
to the test mass plus either the equivalent effective mass of the wheels not 
influencing the measurement results or 50 per cent of mr. 
2.6 
Additional masses for setting the test mass shall be applied such that the weight 
distribution of that vehicle is approximately the same as that of the vehicle 
with its mass in running order. In the case of Category N vehicles or passenger 
vehicles derived from Category N vehicles, the additional masses shall be 
located in a representative manner and shall be justified to the Test Agency 
upon their request. The weight distribution of the vehicle shall be recorded and 
shall be used for any subsequent road load determination testing. 
3.0 
General requirements 
 
The manufacturer shall be responsible for the accuracy of the road load 
coefficients and shall ensure this for each production vehicle within the road 
load family. Tolerances within the road load determination, simulation and 
calculation methods shall not be used to underestimate the road load of 
production vehicles. At the request of the Test Agency, the accuracy of the 
road load coefficients of an individual vehicle shall be demonstrated. 
3.1 
 Overall measurement accuracy, precision, resolution and frequency 
 The required overall measurement accuracy shall be as follows: 



--- PAGE 174 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 174 of 762 
 
 
(a) 
Vehicle speed accuracy: ±0.2 km/h with a measurement frequency of 
at least 10 Hz; 
(b) 
Time: min. accuracy: ±10 ms; min. precision and resolution:10 ms; 
(c) 
Wheel torque accuracy: ±6 Nm or ±0.5 per cent of the maximum 
measured total torque, whichever is greater, for the whole vehicle, with 
a measurement frequency of at least 10 Hz; 
(d) 
Wind speed accuracy: ±0.3 m/s, with a measurement frequency of at 
least 1 Hz; 
(e) 
Wind direction accuracy: ±3°, with a measurement frequency of at least 
1 Hz; 
(f) 
Atmospheric temperature accuracy: ±1 °C, with a measurement 
frequency of at least 0.1 Hz; 
(g) 
Atmospheric pressure accuracy: ±0.3 kPa, with a measurement 
frequency of at least 0.1 Hz; 
(h) 
Vehicle mass accuracy measured on the same weighing scale before 
and after the test: ±10 kg (±20 kg for vehicles > 4,000 kg); 
(i) 
Tyre pressure accuracy: ±5 kPa; 
(j) 
Wheel rotational speed accuracy: ±0.05 s-1 or 1 per cent, whichever is 
greater. 
3.2 
Wind tunnel criteria 
3.2.1 
Wind velocity 
The wind velocity during a measurement shall remain within ±2 km/h at the 
centre of the test section. The possible wind velocity shall be at least 140 km/h. 
3.2.2 
Air temperature 
The air temperature during a measurement shall remain within ±3 °C at the 
centre of the test section. The air temperature distribution at the nozzle outlet 
shall remain within ±3 °C. 
3.2.3 
Turbulence 
For an equally-spaced 3 by 3 grid over the entire nozzle outlet, the turbulence 
intensity, 𝑇𝑢, shall not exceed 1 per cent. See Figure A4/1. 
 
 



--- PAGE 175 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 175 of 762 
 
 
Figure A4/1 
Turbulence intensity 
 
 
𝑇𝑢= 𝑢′
𝑈∞
 
where: 
𝑇𝑢 is the turbulence intensity;  
𝑢′ is the turbulent velocity fluctuation, m/s; 
𝑈∞ is the free flow velocity, m/s. 
3.2.4 
Solid blockage ratio 
The vehicle blockage ratio 𝜀𝑠𝑏 expressed as the quotient of the vehicle frontal 
area and the area of the nozzle outlet as calculated using the following 
equation, shall not exceed 0.35. 
𝜀𝑠𝑏=
𝐴𝑓
𝐴𝑛𝑜𝑧𝑧𝑙𝑒
 
where: 
𝜀𝑠𝑏 is the vehicle blockage ratio; 
𝐴𝑓 is the frontal area of the vehicle, m²; 
𝐴𝑛𝑜𝑧𝑧𝑙𝑒 is the nozzle outlet area, m². 
3.2.5 
Rotating wheels 
To properly determine the aerodynamic influence of the wheels, the wheels 
of the test vehicle shall rotate at such a speed that the resulting vehicle velocity 
is within ±3 km/h of the wind velocity. 
3.2.6 
Moving belt 



--- PAGE 176 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 176 of 762 
 
To simulate the fluid flow at the underbody of the test vehicle, the wind tunnel 
shall have a moving belt extending from the front to the rear of the vehicle. 
The speed of the moving belt shall be within ±3 km/h of the wind velocity. 
3.2.7 
Fluid flow angle 
At nine equally distributed points over the nozzle area, the root mean square 
deviation of both the pitch angle α and the yaw angle β (Y-, Z-plane) at the 
nozzle outlet shall not exceed 1°. 
3.2.8 
Air pressure 
At nine equally distributed points over the nozzle outlet area, the standard 
deviation of the total pressure at the nozzle outlet shall be less than or equal 
to 0.02. 
𝜎(∆𝑃𝑡
𝑞) ≤0.02 
 where: 
𝜎 is the standard deviation of the pressure ratio (
∆𝑃𝑡
𝑞); 
∆𝑃𝑡 is the variation of total pressure between the measurement points, N/m2; 
𝑞 is the dynamic pressure, N/ m². 
The absolute difference of the pressure coefficient 𝑐𝑝 over a distance 3 metres 
ahead and 3 metres behind the centre of the balance in the empty test section 
and at a height of the centre of the nozzle outlet shall not deviate more than 
±0.02. 
|𝑐𝑝𝑥=+3𝑚−𝑐𝑝𝑥=−3𝑚|≤ 0.02  
where: 
 𝑐𝑝 
is the pressure coefficient. 
3.2.9 
Boundary layer thickness 
At 𝑥 =  0 (balance center point), the wind velocity shall have at least 
99 per cent of the inflow velocity 30 mm above the wind tunnel floor. 
𝛿99(𝑥= 0 𝑚) ≤30 mm 
where: 
𝛿99 is the distance perpendicular to the road where 99 per cent of free stream 
velocity is reached (boundary layer thickness). 
3.2.10 
Restraint blockage ratio 



--- PAGE 177 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 177 of 762 
 
The restraint system mounting shall not be in front of the vehicle. The relative 
blockage ratio of the vehicle frontal area due to the restraint system, 𝜀𝑟𝑒𝑠𝑡𝑟, 
shall not exceed 0.10. 
𝜀𝑟𝑒𝑠𝑡𝑟=
𝐴𝑟𝑒𝑠𝑡𝑟
𝐴𝑓 where: 
𝜀𝑟𝑒𝑠𝑡𝑟 is the relative blockage ratio of the restraint system; 
𝐴𝑟𝑒𝑠𝑡𝑟 
is the frontal area of the restraint system projected on the nozzle 
face, m²; 
𝐴𝑓 
is the frontal area of the vehicle, m². 
3.2.11 
Measurement accuracy of the balance in the x-direction 
The inaccuracy of the resulting force in the x-direction shall not exceed ±5 N. 
The resolution of the measured force shall be within ±3 N. 
3.2.12 
Measurement precision 
The precision of the measured force shall be within ±3 N. 
4.0 
Road load measurement on road 
4.1 
Requirements for road test 
4.1.1 
Atmospheric conditions for road test 
Atmospheric conditions (wind conditions, atmospheric temperature and 
atmospheric pressure) shall be measured according to paragraph 3.1. of this 
annex. Only those atmospheric conditions measured during coastdown time 
measurements and/or torque measurement shall be used for checking data 
validity and corrections. 
4.1.1.1 
Permissible wind conditions when using stationary anemometry and on-board 
anemometry 
4.1.1.1.1 
Permissible wind conditions when using stationary anemometry 
The wind speed shall be measured at a location and height above the road 
level alongside the test road where the most representative wind conditions 
will be experienced. In cases where tests in opposite directions cannot be 
performed at the same part of the test track (e.g. on an oval test track with an 
obligatory driving direction), the wind speed and direction shall be measured 
at the opposite parts of the test track. 
The wind conditions during run pairs shall meet all of the following criteria: 
 
(a) Wind speed shall be less than 5 m/s over a 5 second moving average 
period; 



--- PAGE 178 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 178 of 762 
 
(b) Peak wind speeds shall not exceed 8 m/s for more than 2 consecutive 
seconds; 
(c) The arithmetic average vector component of the wind speed across the 
test road shall be less than 2 m/s. 
 
The wind correction shall be calculated according to paragraph 4.5.3. of this 
annex. 
4.1.1.1.2 
Permissible wind conditions when using on-board anemometry 
For testing with an on-board anemometer, a device as described in 
paragraph 4.3.2. of this annex shall be used. 
The wind conditions during run pairs shall meet all of the following criteria: 
(a) The arithmetic average of the wind speed shall be less than 7 m/s; 
(b) Peak wind speeds shall not exceed 10 m/s for more than 2 consecutive 
seconds; 
(c) The arithmetic average vector component of the wind speed across the 
road shall be less than 4 m/s. 
4.1.1.2 
Atmospheric temperature 
The atmospheric temperature should be within the range of 5 °C up to and 
including 40 °C. Testing agencies may deviate from the upper range by ±5 °C 
on a regional level 
At the option of the manufacturer, coastdowns may be performed between 
1 °C and 5 °C.  
If the difference between the highest and the lowest measured temperature 
during the coastdown test is more than 5 °C, the temperature correction shall 
be applied separately for each run with the arithmetic average of the ambient 
temperature of that run.  
In that case, the values of the road load coefficients f0, f1 and f2 shall be 
determined and corrected for each run pair. The final set of f0, f1 and f2 values 
shall be the arithmetic average of the individually corrected coefficients f0, f1 
and f2 respectively.  
4.1.2 
Test road  
The road surface shall be flat, even, clean, dry and free of obstacles or wind 
barriers that might impede the measurement of the road load, and its texture 
and composition shall be representative of current urban and highway road 
surfaces, i.e. no airstrip-specific surface. The longitudinal slope of the test 
road shall not exceed 1 per cent. The local slope between any points 3 metres 
apart shall not deviate more than 0.5 per cent from this longitudinal slope. If 
tests in opposite directions cannot be performed at the same part of the test 



--- PAGE 179 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 179 of 762 
 
track (e.g. on an oval test track with an obligatory driving direction), the sum 
of the longitudinal slopes of the parallel test track segments shall be between 
0 and an upward slope of 0.1 per cent. The maximum camber of the test road 
shall be 1.5 per cent. 
4.2 
Preparation 
4.2.1 
Test vehicle 
Each test vehicle shall conform in all its components with the production 
series, (e.g. side mirrors shall be same position as during normal vehicle 
operation, body gaps shall not be sealed), or, if the vehicle is different from 
the production vehicle, a full description shall be recorded.  
4.2.1.1 
Requirements for test vehicle selection 
4.2.1.1.1 
Without using the interpolation method 
A test vehicle (vehicle H) with the combination of road load relevant 
characteristics (i.e. mass, aerodynamic drag and tyre rolling resistance) 
producing the highest cycle energy demand shall be selected from the family 
(see paragraphs 6.3.2. and 6.3.3. of this Regulation). 
If the aerodynamic influence of the different wheels within one interpolation 
family is not known, the selection shall be based on the highest expected 
aerodynamic drag. As a guideline, the highest aerodynamic drag may be 
expected for wheels with (a) the largest width, (b) the largest diameter, and 
(c) the most open structure design (in that order of importance). 
The wheel selection shall be performed additional to the requirement of the 
highest cycle energy demand. 
4.2.1.1.2 
Using an interpolation method 
At the request of the manufacturer, an interpolation method may be applied.  
In this case, two test vehicles shall be selected from the family complying with 
the respective family requirement. 
Test vehicle H shall be the vehicle producing the higher, and preferably 
highest, cycle energy demand of that selection, test vehicle L the one 
producing the lower, and preferably lowest, cycle energy demand of that 
selection.  
All items of optional equipment and/or body shapes that are chosen not to be 
considered when applying the interpolation method shall be identical for both 
test vehicles H and L such that these items of optional equipment produce the 
highest combination of the cycle energy demand due to their road load 
relevant characteristics (i.e. mass, aerodynamic drag and tyre rolling 
resistance). 



--- PAGE 180 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 180 of 762 
 
In the case where individual vehicles can be supplied with a complete set of 
standard wheels and tyres and in addition a complete set of snow tyres 
(marked with 3 Peaked Mountain and Snowflake – 3PMS) with or without 
wheels, the additional wheels/tyres shall not be considered as optional 
equipment. 
4.2.1.1.2.1 The following requirements between vehicles H and L shall be fulfilled for 
the road load relevant characteristics: 
 
(a) 
To allow extrapolating road load coefficients: 
 
 
(i) If f0_ind is below f*0_L or above f0_H as defined in 
paragraph 3.2.3.2.2.4. of Annex B7 while performing the 
calculation in paragraph 3.2.3.2.2.4. of Annex B7, the following 
minimum differences between H and L are required: 
Rolling resistance of at least 1.0 kg/tonne and a mass of at least 
30 kg; in case of RR between 0 and 1.0, the minimum of the mass 
difference is replaced with 100 kg instead of 30 kg; 
(ii) If f2_ind is below f*2_L or above f2_H as defined in 
paragraph 3.2.3.2.2.4. of Annex B7 while performing the 
calculation in paragraph 3.2.3.2.2.4. of Annex B7, the following 
minimum difference between H and L is required: 
Aerodynamic drag (CD × Af) of at least 0.05 m². If the manufacturer 
can demonstrate that the results after an extrapolation are still 
rational, the minimum criteria in points (i) to (iii) above can be 
waived. 
 
(b) 
For each road load characteristic (i.e. mass, aerodynamic drag and tyre 
rolling resistance) as well as for the road load coefficients f0 and f2, the 
value of vehicle H shall be higher than that of vehicle L, otherwise the 
worst case shall be applied for that road load relevant characteristic. At 
the request of the manufacturer and upon approval by the Test Agency 
the requirements of this point can be waived. 
4.2.1.1.2.2 To achieve a sufficient difference between vehicle H and vehicle L on a 
particular road load relevant characteristic, or in order to fulfil criteria of 
paragraph 4.2.1.1.2.1. of this annex, the manufacturer may artificially worsen 
vehicle H, e.g. by applying a higher test mass. 
4.2.1.2 
Requirements for families 
4.2.1.2.1 
Requirements for applying the interpolation family without using the 
interpolation method 
For the criteria defining an interpolation family, see paragraph 6.3.2. of this 
Regulation. 



--- PAGE 181 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 181 of 762 
 
4.2.1.2.2 
Requirements for applying the interpolation family using the interpolation 
method are: 
 
(a) 
Fulfilling the interpolation family criteria listed in paragraph 6.3.2. of 
this Regulation; 
(b) 
Fulfilling the requirements in paragraphs 2.3.1. and 2.3.2. of 
Annex B6; 
(c) 
Performing the calculations in paragraph 3.2.3.2. of Annex B7. 
4.2.1.2.3. 
Requirements for applying the road load family 
4.2.1.2.3.1 At the request of the manufacturer and upon fulfilling the criteria of 
paragraph 6.3.3. of this Regulation, the road load values for vehicles H and L 
of an interpolation family shall be calculated. 
4.2.1.2.3.2 Test vehicles H and L as defined in paragraph 4.2.1.1.2. of this annex shall be 
referred to as HR and LR for the purpose of the road load family. 
4.2.1.2.3.3. The difference in cycle energy demand between HR and LR of the road load 
family shall be at least 4 per cent and shall not exceed 35 per cent based on 
HR over a complete WLTC Class 3 cycle. 
If more than one transmission is included in the road load family, a 
transmission with the highest power losses shall be used for road load 
determination. 
4.2.1.2.3.4. If the road load delta of the vehicle option causing the friction difference is 
determined according to paragraph 6.8. of this annex, a new road load family 
shall be calculated which includes the road load delta in both vehicle L and 
vehicle H of that new road load family. 
𝑓0,𝑁= 𝑓0,𝑅+ 𝑓0,𝐷𝑒𝑙𝑡𝑎 
𝑓1,𝑁= 𝑓1,𝑅+ 𝑓1,𝐷𝑒𝑙𝑡𝑎 
𝑓2,𝑁= 𝑓2,𝑅+ 𝑓2,𝐷𝑒𝑙𝑡𝑎 
 
where: 
N 
Refers to the road load coefficients of the new road load family; 
R 
Refers to the road load coefficients of the reference road load family; 
Delta refers to the delta road load coefficients determined in 
paragraph 6.8.1. of this annex. 
4.2.1.3.
 
 
Allowable combinations of test vehicle selection and family requirements 



--- PAGE 182 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 182 of 762 
 
Table A4/1 shows the permissible combinations of test vehicle selection and 
family requirements as described in paragraphs 4.2.1.1. and 4.2.1.2. of this 
annex. 
 
Table A4/1 
Permissible combinations of test vehicle selection and family 
requirements 
 
Requirement
s to be 
fulfilled: 
(1) 
 w/o 
interpolation 
method 
(2) Interpolation 
method w/o 
road load family 
(3) 
 Applying 
the road 
load 
family 
(4) Interpolation 
method using one or 
more road load 
families 
Road load 
test vehicle 
Paragraph 
4.2.1.1.1. of 
this annex. 
Paragraph 
4.2.1.1.2. of this 
annex. 
Paragraph 
4.2.1.1.2. 
of this 
annex. 
n.a. 
Family 
Paragraph 
4.2.1.2.1. of 
this annex. 
Paragraph 
4.2.1.2.2. of this 
annex. 
Paragraph 
4.2.1.2.3. 
of this 
annex. 
Paragraph 4.2.1.2.2. 
of this annex. 
Additional 
none 
none 
none 
Application of column 
(3) "Applying the road 
load family" and 
application of 
paragraph 4.2.1.3.1. of 
this annex. 
 
 
4.2.1.3.1. 
Deriving road loads of an interpolation family from a road load family 
Road loads HR and/or LR shall be determined according to this annex. 
The road load of vehicle H (and L) of an interpolation family within the road 
load family shall be calculated according to paragraphs 3.2.3.2.2. to 
3.2.3.2.2.4. inclusive of Annex B7 by: 
 
(a) 
Using HR and LR of the road load family instead of H and L as inputs 
for the equations; 
 
(b) 
Using the road load parameters (i.e. test mass, Δ(CD ×Af) compared to 
vehicle LR, and tyre rolling resistance) of vehicle H (or L) of the 
interpolation family as inputs for the individual vehicle; 
 
(c) 
Repeating this calculation for each H and L vehicle of every 
interpolation family within the road load family. 
 
 



--- PAGE 183 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 183 of 762 
 
 
The road load interpolation shall only be applied on those road load-relevant 
characteristics that were identified to be different between test vehicle LR and 
HR. For other road load-relevant characteristic(s), the value of vehicle HR shall 
apply. 
H and L of the interpolation family may be derived from different road load 
families. If that difference between these road load families comes from 
applying the delta method, refer to paragraph 4.2.1.2.3.4. of this annex. 
4.2.1.4. 
Application of the road load matrix family 
A vehicle that fulfils the criteria of paragraph 6.3.4. of this Regulation that is: 
 
(a) Representative of the intended series of complete vehicles to be covered 
by the road load matrix family in terms of estimated worst CD value and 
body shape; and 
(b) Representative of the intended series of vehicles to be covered by the 
road load matrix family in terms of estimated average of the mass of 
optional equipment 
shall be used to determine the road load.  
In the case that no representative body shape for a complete vehicle can be 
determined, the test vehicle shall be equipped with a square box with rounded 
corners with radii of maximum of 25 mm and a width equal to the maximum 
width of the vehicles covered by the road load matrix family, and a total height 
of the test vehicle of 3.0 m ±0.1 m, including the box. 
The manufacturer and the Test Agency shall agree which vehicle test model 
is representative. 
The vehicle parameters test mass, tyre rolling resistance and frontal area of 
both a vehicle HM and LM shall be determined in such a way that vehicle HM 
produces the highest cycle energy demand and vehicle LM the lowest cycle 
energy from the road load matrix family. The manufacturer and the Test 
Agency shall agree on the vehicle parameters for vehicles HM and LM. 
The road load of all individual vehicles of the road load matrix family, 
including HM and LM, shall be calculated according to paragraph 5.1. of this 
annex. 
4.2.1.5. 
Movable aerodynamic body parts 
Movable aerodynamic body parts on the test vehicles shall operate during road 
load determination as intended under WLTP Type I test conditions (test 
temperature, vehicle speed and acceleration range, engine load, etc.). 
Every vehicle system that dynamically modifies the vehicle’s aerodynamic 
drag (e.g. vehicle height control) shall be considered to be a movable 
aerodynamic body part. Appropriate requirements shall be added if future 
vehicles are equipped with movable aerodynamic items of optional equipment 



--- PAGE 184 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 184 of 762 
 
whose influence on aerodynamic drag justifies the need for further 
requirements. 
4.2.1.6. 
Weighing 
Before and after the road load determination procedure, the selected vehicle 
shall be weighed, including the test driver and equipment, to determine the 
arithmetic average mass 𝑚𝑎𝑣. The mass of the vehicle shall be greater than or 
equal to the test mass of vehicle H or of vehicle L at the start of the road load 
determination procedure. 
4.2.1.7 
Test vehicle configuration 
The test vehicle configuration shall be recorded and shall be used for any 
subsequent coastdown testing. 
4.2.1.8. 
Test vehicle condition 
4.2.1.8.1. 
Run-in 
The test vehicle shall be suitably run-in for the purpose of the subsequent test 
for at least 10,000 but no more than 80,000 km. 
At the request of the manufacturer, a vehicle with a minimum of 3,000 km 
may be used. 
4.2.1.8.2. 
Manufacturer's specifications 
The vehicle shall conform to the manufacturer’s intended production vehicle 
specifications regarding tyre pressures described in paragraph 4.2.2.3. of this 
annex, wheel alignment described in paragraph 4.2.1.8.3. of this annex, 
ground clearance, vehicle height, drivetrain and wheel bearing lubricants, and 
brake adjustment to avoid unrepresentative parasitic drag. 
4.2.1.8.3. 
Wheel alignment 
Toe and camber shall be set to the maximum deviation from the longitudinal 
axis of the vehicle in the range defined by the manufacturer. If a manufacturer 
prescribes values for toe and camber for the vehicle, these values shall be used. 
At the request of the manufacturer, values with higher deviations from the 
longitudinal axis of the vehicle than the prescribed values may be used. The 
prescribed values shall be the reference for all maintenance during the lifetime 
of the vehicle.  
Other adjustable wheel alignment parameters (such as caster) shall be set to 
the values recommended by the manufacturer. In the absence of recommended 
values, they shall be set to the arithmetic average of the range defined by the 
manufacturer. 
Such adjustable parameters and set values shall be recorded. 



--- PAGE 185 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 185 of 762 
 
4.2.1.8.4. 
Closed panels 
During the road load determination, the engine compartment cover, luggage 
compartment cover, manually-operated movable panels and all windows shall 
be closed.  
4.2.1.8.5. 
Vehicle coastdown mode 
If the determination of dynamometer settings cannot meet the criteria 
described in paragraphs 8.1.3. or 8.2.3. of this annex due to non-reproducible 
forces, the vehicle shall be equipped with a vehicle coastdown mode. The 
vehicle coastdown mode shall be approved and its use shall be recorded by 
the Test Agency. 
If a vehicle is equipped with a vehicle coastdown mode, it shall be engaged 
both during road load determination and on the chassis dynamometer. 
4.2.2. 
Tyres 
4.2.2.1. 
Tyre rolling resistance 
Tyre rolling resistances shall meet requirements laid down in AIS-142. The 
rolling resistance coefficients shall be aligned according to the rolling 
resistance classes in Table A4/2. 
 
Table A4/2 
Energy efficiency classes according to rolling resistance coefficients (RRC) for C1, 
C2 and C3 tyres and the RRC values to be used for those energy efficiency classes in 
the interpolation, kg/tonne 
Energy 
efficiency 
class 
Range of RRC for C1 tyres 
Range of RRC for 
C2 tyres 
Range of RRC for C3 tyres 
1 
RRC ≤ 6.5 
RRC ≤ 5.5 
RRC ≤ 4.0 
2 
6.5 < RRC ≤ 7.7 
5.5 < RRC ≤ 6.7 
4.0 < RRC ≤ 5.0 
3 
7.7 < RRC ≤ 9.0 
6.7 < RRC ≤ 8.0 
5.0 < RRC ≤ 6.0 
4 
9.0 < RRC ≤ 10.5 
8.0 < RRC ≤ 9.2 
6.0 < RRC ≤ 7.0 
5 
10.5 < RRC ≤ 12.0 
9.2 < RRC ≤ 10.
5 
7.0 < RRC ≤ 8.0 
6 
RRC > 12.0 
RRC > 10.5 
RRC > 8.0 
Energy 
efficiency 
class 
Value of RRC to be used for 
interpolation for C1 tyres 
Value of RRC to be 
used for 
interpolation for C2 
tyres 
Value of RRC to be used for interpolation 
for C3 tyres 
1 
RRC = 5.9 
RRC = 4.9 
RRC = 3.5 
2 
RRC = 7.1 
RRC = 6.1 
RRC = 4.5 



--- PAGE 186 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 186 of 762 
 
3 
RRC = 8.4 
RRC = 7.4 
RRC = 5.5 
4 
RRC = 9.8 
RRC = 8.6 
RRC = 6.5 
5 
RRC = 11.3 
RRC = 9.9 
RRC = 7.5 
6 
RRC = 12.9 
RRC = 11.2 
RRC = 8.5 
 
If the interpolation method is applied to rolling resistance, the actual rolling 
resistance values for the tyres fitted to the test vehicles L and H shall be used 
as input for the interpolation method. For an individual vehicle within an 
interpolation family, the RRC value for the energy efficiency class of the tyres 
fitted shall be used. 
In the case where individual vehicles can be supplied with a complete set of 
standard wheels and tyres and in addition a complete set of snow tyres (marked 
with 3 Peaked Mountain and Snowflake – 3PMS) with or without wheels, the 
additional wheels/tyres shall not be considered as optional equipment. 
4.2.2.2 
Tyre condition 
Tyres used for the test shall: 
 
(a) 
Not be older than 2 years after the production date; 
 
(b) 
Not be specially conditioned or treated (e.g. heated or artificially aged), 
with the exception of grinding in the original shape of the tread; 
 
(c) 
Be run-in on a road for at least 200 km before road load determination; 
 
(d) 
Have a constant tread depth before the test between 100 and 80 per cent 
of the original tread depth at any point over the full tread width of the tyre. 
 
After measurement of tread depth, the driving distance shall be limited to 
500 km. If 500 km are exceeded, the tread depth shall be measured again. 
4.2.2.3 
Tyre pressure 
The front and rear tyres shall be inflated to the lower limit of the tyre pressure 
range for the respective axle for the selected tyre at the coastdown test mass, as 
specified by the vehicle manufacturer. 
4.2.2.3.1 
Tyre pressure adjustment 
If the difference between ambient and soak temperature is more than 5 °C, the 
tyre pressure shall be adjusted as follows: 
 
(a) 
The tyres shall be soaked for more than 1 hour at 10 per cent above the 
target pressure; 
(b) 
Prior to testing, the tyre pressure shall be reduced to the inflation pressure 
as specified in paragraph 4.2.2.3. of this annex, adjusted for difference 



--- PAGE 187 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 187 of 762 
 
between the soaking environment temperature and the ambient test 
temperature at a rate of 0.8 kPa per 1 °C using the following equation: 
∆𝑝𝑡= 0.8 × (𝑇𝑠𝑜𝑎𝑘−𝑇𝑎𝑚𝑏)  
where: 
∆𝑝𝑡 is the tyre pressure adjustment added to the tyre pressure defined in 
paragraph 4.2.2.3. of this annex, kPa; 
0.8 
is the pressure adjustment factor, kPa/°C; 
𝑇𝑠𝑜𝑎𝑘 is the tyre soaking temperature, °C; 
𝑇𝑎𝑚𝑏 is the test ambient temperature, °C. 
(c) 
Between the pressure adjustment and the vehicle warm-up, the tyres shall 
be shielded from external heat sources including sun radiation. 
4.2.3 
Instrumentation 
Any instruments shall be installed in such a manner as to minimise their effects 
on the aerodynamic characteristics of the vehicle. 
If the effect of the installed instrument on (CD × Af) is expected to be greater 
than 0.015 m2, the vehicle with and without the instrument shall be measured 
in a wind tunnel fulfilling the criteria in paragraph 3.2. of this annex. The 
corresponding difference shall be subtracted from f2. At the request of the 
manufacturer, and with approval of the Test Agency, the determined value may 
be used for similar vehicles where the influence of the equipment is expected 
to be the same. 
4.2.4 
Vehicle warm-up 
4.2.4.1 
On the road 
Warming up shall be performed by driving the vehicle only. 
4.2.4.1.1. Before warm-up, the vehicle shall be decelerated with the clutch disengaged or 
an automatic transmission placed in neutral by moderate braking from 80 to 
20 km/h within 5 to 10 seconds. After this braking, there shall be no further 
actuation or manual adjustment of the braking system. 
At the request of the manufacturer and upon approval of the Test Agency, the 
brakes may also be activated after the warm-up with the same deceleration as 
described in this paragraph and only if necessary. 
4.2.4.1.2. Warming up and stabilization 
All vehicles shall be driven at 90 per cent of the maximum speed of the 
applicable WLTC. The vehicle may be driven at 90 per cent of the maximum 
speed of the next higher phase (see Table A4/3) if this phase is added to the 
applicable WLTC warm-up procedure as defined in paragraph 7.3.4. of this 



--- PAGE 188 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 188 of 762 
 
annex. The vehicle shall be warmed up for at least 20 minutes until stable 
conditions are reached. 
 
Table A4/3 
Warming-up and stabilization across phases 
 
Cycle class 
Applicable WLTC 
90 per cent of maximum 
speed 
Class 1 
Low1 + Medium1 
58 km/h 
Class 2 
Low2 + Medium2 + High2 
77 km/h 
Class 3 
Low3 + Medium3 + High3 
88 km/h 
4.2.4.1.3. Criterion for stable condition 
Refer to paragraph 4.3.1.4.2. of this annex. 
4.3 
Measurement and calculation of road load using the coastdown method 
The road load shall be determined by using either the stationary anemometry 
(paragraph 4.3.1. of this annex) or the on-board anemometry (paragraph 4.3.2. 
of this annex) method. 
4.3.1 
Coastdown method using stationary anemometry 
4.3.1.1 
Selection of reference speeds for road load curve determination  
Reference speeds for road load determination shall be selected according to 
paragraph 2.2. of this annex. 
4.3.1.2. 
Data collection 
During the test, elapsed time and vehicle speed shall be measured at a minimum 
frequency of 10 Hz. 
4.3.1.3. 
Vehicle coastdown procedure 
4.3.1.3.1. Following the vehicle warm-up procedure described in paragraph 4.2.4. of this 
annex and immediately prior to each coastdown run, the vehicle shall be 
accelerated to 10 to 15 km/h above the highest reference speed and shall be 
driven at that speed for a maximum of 1 minute. After that, the coastdown run 
shall be started immediately. 
4.3.1.3.2. During a coastdown run, the transmission shall be in neutral. Any movement 
of the steering wheel shall be avoided as much as possible, and the vehicle 
brakes shall not be operated. 
4.3.1.3.3. The test shall be repeated until the coastdown data satisfy the statistical 
precision requirements as specified in paragraph 4.3.1.4.2. of this annex. 



--- PAGE 189 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 189 of 762 
 
 
 
4.3.1.3.4. Although it is recommended that each coastdown run should be performed without 
interruption, if data cannot be collected in a single run for all the reference speed 
points, the coastdown test may be performed with coastdown runs where the first 
and last reference speeds are not necessarily the highest and lowest reference 
speeds. In this case, the following additional requirements shall apply: 
 
(a) At least one reference speed in each coastdown run shall overlap with the 
immediately higher speed range coastdown run. This reference speed shall 
be referred to as a split point; 
(b) At each overlapped reference speed, the average force of the immediately 
lower speed coastdown run shall not deviate from the average force of the 
immediately higher speed coastdown run by ±10 N or ± 5 per cent, 
whichever is greater; 
(c) Overlapped reference speed data of the lower speed coastdown run shall be 
used only for checking criterion (b) and shall be excluded from evaluation 
of the statistical precision as defined in paragraph 4.3.1.4.2. of this annex; 
(d) The overlapped speed may be less than 10 km/h but shall not be less than 
5 km/h. In this case, overlap criterion (b) shall be checked by either 
extrapolating the polynomial curves for the lower and higher speed segment 
to a 10 km/h overlap, or by comparing the average force in the specific 
speed range. 
4.3.1.3.5. It is recommended that coastdown runs should be conducted successively 
without undue delay between runs. If there is a delay between runs (e.g. for a 
driver break, checking vehicle integrity, etc.), the vehicle shall be warmed up 
again as described in paragraph 4.2.4. and the coastdown runs shall be re-
commenced from this point.  
4.3.1.4. 
Coastdown time measurement 
4.3.1.4.1.
 
 
The coastdown time corresponding to reference speed 𝑣𝑗as the elapsed time 
from vehicle speed (𝑣𝑗 + 5 𝑘𝑚/ℎ) to (𝑣𝑗− 5 𝑘𝑚/ℎ) shall be measured.  
4.3.1.4.2. These measurements shall be carried out in opposite directions until a 
minimum of three pairs of measurements have been obtained that satisfy the 
statistical precision pj defined in the following equation: 
𝑝𝑗=
ℎ× 𝜎𝑗
√𝑛× ∆𝑡𝑝𝑗
 ≤0.030 



--- PAGE 190 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 190 of 762 
 
 
where: 
 
𝑝𝑗 is the statistical precision of the measurements made at reference speed vj; 
𝑛 is the number of pairs of measurements; 
∆𝑡𝑝𝑗 is the harmonic average of the coastdown time at reference speed vj in 
seconds given by the following equation: 
∆𝑡𝑝𝑗=
𝑛
∑
1
∆𝑡𝑗𝑖
𝑛
𝑖=1
 
 
where: 
 
∆𝑡𝑗𝑖 is the harmonic average coastdown time of the ith pair of measurements at 
velocity vj, seconds, s, given by the following equation: 
∆𝑡𝑗𝑖= 
2
(
1
∆𝑡𝑗𝑎𝑖)+ (
1
∆𝑡𝑗𝑏𝑖)
  
 
where: 
 
∆𝑡𝑗𝑎𝑖 and ∆𝑡𝑗𝑏𝑖 are the coastdown times of the ith measurement at   
reference 
speed vj, in seconds, s, in the respective  directions a and b; 
  𝜎𝑗 
is the standard deviation, expressed in seconds, s, defined by:  
σj= √
1
𝑛−1 ∑
(∆𝑡𝑗𝑖−∆𝑡𝑝𝑗)² 
𝑛
𝑖=1
 
 ℎ 
 is a coefficient given in Table A4/4. 
 
 



--- PAGE 191 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 191 of 762 
 
Table A4/4 
Coefficient h as a function of n 
n 
h 
n 
h 
3 
4.3 
17 
2.1 
4 
3.2 
18 
2.1 
5 
2.8 
19 
2.1 
6 
2.6 
20 
2.1 
7 
2.5 
21 
2.1 
8 
2.4 
22 
2.1 
9 
2.3 
23 
2.1 
10 
2.3 
24 
2.1 
11 
2.2 
25 
2.1 
12 
2.2 
26 
2.1 
13 
2.2 
27 
2.1 
14 
2.2 
28 
2.1 
15 
2.2 
29 
2.0 
16 
2.1 
30 
2.0 
4.3.1.4.3. 
If during a measurement in one direction any external factor or driver action 
occurs that obviously influences the road load test, that measurement and the 
corresponding measurement in the opposite direction shall be rejected. All the 
rejected data and the reason for rejection shall be recorded, and the number of 
rejected pairs of measurement shall not exceed 1/3 of the total number of 
measurement pairs. In the case of split runs, the rejection criteria shall be 
applied at each split run speed range. 
Due to uncertainty of data validity and for practical reasons, more than the 
minimum number of run pairs required in paragraph 4.3.1.4.2. of this annex 
may be performed, but the total number of run pairs shall not exceed 30 runs 
including the rejected pairs as described in this paragraph. In this case, data 
evaluation shall be carried out as described in paragraph 4.3.1.4.2. of this annex 
starting from the first run pair, then including as many consecutive run pairs as 
needed to reach the statistical precision on a data set containing no more than 
1/3 of rejected pairs. The remaining run pairs shall be disregarded. 
4.3.1.4.4. 
The following equation shall be used to compute the arithmetic average of the 
road load where the harmonic average of the alternate coastdown times shall be 
used: 
𝐹𝑗 = 1
3.6 × (𝑚𝑎𝑣+ 𝑚𝑟) × 2 × ∆𝑣
∆𝑡𝑗
 
where: 
Δv is 5 km/h; 



--- PAGE 192 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 192 of 762 
 
∆𝑡𝑗 is the harmonic average of alternate coastdown time measurements at 
velocity 𝑣𝑗, seconds, s, given by: 
∆𝑡𝑗= 
2
1
∆𝑡𝑗𝑎+ 1
∆𝑡𝑗𝑏
 
 where: 
∆𝑡𝑗𝑎 and ∆𝑡𝑗𝑏 are the harmonic average coastdown times in directions a and b, 
respectively, corresponding to reference speed 𝑣𝑗, in seconds, s, given by the 
following two equations: 
∆𝑡𝑗𝑎= 
𝑛
∑
1
𝑡𝑗𝑎𝑖
𝑛
𝑖=1
 
and: 
∆𝑡𝑗𝑏= 
𝑛
∑
1
𝑡𝑗𝑏𝑖
𝑛
𝑖=1
. 
 where: 
𝑚𝑎𝑣 
is the arithmetic average of the test vehicle masses at the beginning and 
end of road load determination, kg; 
𝑚𝑟 
is the equivalent effective mass of rotating components according to 
paragraph 2.5.1. of this annex; 
The coefficients, 𝑓0, 𝑓1 and 𝑓2, in the road load equation shall be calculated with 
a least squares regression analysis. 
In the case that the tested vehicle is the representative vehicle of a road load 
matrix family, the coefficient f1 shall be set to zero and the coefficients f0 and 
f2 shall be recalculated with a least squares regression analysis. 
4.3.1.4.5. 
Correction to reference conditions 
The curve determined in paragraph 4.3.1.4.4. of this annex shall be corrected to 
reference conditions as specified in paragraph 4.5. of this annex. 
4.3.2. 
Coastdown method using on-board anemometry 
The vehicle shall be warmed up and stabilised according to paragraph 4.2.4. of 
this annex.  
4.3.2.1. 
Additional instrumentation for on-board anemometry 
The on-board anemometer and instrumentation shall be calibrated by means of 
operation on the test vehicle where such calibration occurs during the warm-up 
for the test. 
4.3.2.1.1. Relative wind speed shall be measured at a minimum frequency of 1 Hz and to 
an accuracy of 0.3 m/s. Vehicle blockage shall be accounted for in the 
calibration of the anemometer. 
4.3.2.1.2. Wind direction shall be relative to the direction of the vehicle. The relative wind 
direction (yaw) shall be measured with a resolution of 1 degree and an accuracy 



--- PAGE 193 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 193 of 762 
 
of 3 degrees; the dead band of the instrument shall not exceed 10 degrees and 
shall be directed towards the rear of the vehicle. 
4.3.2.1.3. Before the coastdown, the anemometer shall be calibrated for speed and yaw 
offset as specified in ISO 10521-1:2006(E) Annex A. 
4.3.2.1.4. Anemometer blockage shall be corrected for in the calibration procedure as 
described in ISO 10521-1:2006(E) Annex A in order to minimise its effect. 
4.3.2.2. 
Selection of vehicle speed range for road load curve determination 
The test vehicle speed range shall be selected according to paragraph 2.2. of this 
annex. 
4.3.2.3. 
Data collection  
During the procedure, elapsed time, vehicle speed, and air velocity (speed, 
direction) relative to the vehicle, shall be measured at a minimum frequency of 
5 Hz. Ambient temperature shall be synchronised and sampled at a minimum 
frequency of 0.1 Hz. 
4.3.2.4. 
Vehicle coastdown procedure 
The measurements shall be carried out in run pairs in opposite directions until 
a minimum of ten consecutive runs (five pairs) have been obtained. Should an 
individual run fail to satisfy the required on-board anemometry test conditions, 
that pair, i.e. that run and the corresponding run in the opposite direction, shall 
be rejected. All valid pairs shall be included in the final analysis with a 
minimum of 5 pairs of coastdown runs. See paragraph 4.3.2.6.10. of this annex 
for statistical validation criteria. 
The anemometer shall be installed in a position such that the effect on the 
operating characteristics of the vehicle is minimised. 
The anemometer shall be installed according to one of the options below: 
 
(a) 
Using a boom approximately 2 metres in front of the vehicle’s forward 
aerodynamic stagnation point; 
(b) 
On the roof of the vehicle at its centreline. If possible, the anemometer 
shall be mounted within 30 cm from the top of the windshield; 
(c) 
On the engine compartment cover of the vehicle at its centreline, 
mounted at the midpoint position between the vehicle front and the base 
of the windshield. 
 
In all cases, the anemometer shall be mounted parallel to the road surface. In 
the event that positions (b) or (c) are used, the coastdown results shall be 
analytically adjusted for the additional aerodynamic drag induced by the 
anemometer. The adjustment shall be made by testing the coastdown vehicle in 
a wind tunnel both with and without the anemometer installed in the same 
position as used on the track., The calculated difference shall be the incremental 



--- PAGE 194 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 194 of 762 
 
aerodynamic drag coefficient 𝐶𝐷 combined with the frontal area, which shall be 
used to correct the coastdown results. 
4.3.2.4.1. Following the vehicle warm-up procedure described in paragraph 4.2.4. of this 
annex and immediately prior to each coastdown run, the vehicle shall be 
accelerated to 10 to 15 km/h above the highest reference speed and shall be 
driven at that speed for a maximum of 1 minute. After that, the coastdown run 
shall be started immediately. 
4.3.2.4.2. During a coastdown run, the transmission shall be in neutral. Any steering 
wheel movement shall be avoided as much as possible, and the vehicle’s brakes 
shall not be operated. 
4.3.2.4.3. Although it is recommended that each coastdown run be performed without 
interruption, if data cannot be collected in a single run for all the reference speed 
points the coastdown test may be performed with coastdown runs where the first 
and last reference speeds are not necessarily the highest and lowest reference 
speeds. For split runs, the following additional requirements shall apply: 
 
(a) 
At least one reference speed in each coastdown run shall overlap with the 
immediately higher speed range coastdown run. This reference speed shall 
be referred to as a split point; 
(b) 
At each overlapped reference speed, the average force of the immediately 
lower speed coastdown run shall not deviate from the average force of the 
immediately higher speed range coastdown run by ±10 N or ±5 per cent, 
whichever is greater; 
(c) 
Overlapped reference speed data of the lower speed coastdown run shall be 
used only for checking criterion (b) and shall be excluded from evaluation 
of the statistical precision as defined in paragraph 4.3.1.4.2. of this annex; 
(d) 
The overlapped speed may be less than 10 km/h but shall not be less than 
5 km/h. In this case, overlap criterion (b) shall be checked by either 
extrapolating the polynomial curves for the lower and higher speed 
segment to a 10 km/h overlap, or by comparing the average force in the 
specific speed range. 
4.3.2.4.4. It is recommended that coastdown runs should be conducted successively 
without undue delay between runs. If there is a delay between runs (e.g. for a 
driver break, checking vehicle integrity, etc.), the vehicle shall be warmed up 
again as described in paragraph 4.2.4. and the coastdown runs shall be re-
commenced from this point. 
4.3.2.5. 
Determination of the equation of motion 
Symbols used in the on-board anemometer equations of motion are listed in 
Table A4/5. 
 
Table A4/5 



--- PAGE 195 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 195 of 762 
 
Symbols used in the on-board anemometer equations of motion 
 
Symbol 
Units 
Description 
𝐴𝑓 
m2 
frontal area of the vehicle 
𝑎0 … 𝑎𝑛 
degrees-1 
aerodynamic drag coefficients as a function of 
yaw angle 
𝐴𝑚 
N 
mechanical drag coefficient 
𝐵𝑚 
N/(km/h) 
mechanical drag coefficient  
𝐶𝑚 
N/(km/h)2 
mechanical drag coefficient 
𝐶𝐷(𝑌) 
 
aerodynamic drag coefficient at yaw            
angle Y 
𝐷 
N 
drag 
𝐷𝑎𝑒𝑟𝑜 
N 
aerodynamic drag 
𝐷𝑓 
N 
front axle drag (including driveline) 
𝐷𝑔𝑟𝑎𝑣 
N 
gravitational drag 
𝐷𝑚𝑒𝑐ℎ 
N 
mechanical drag 
𝐷𝑟 
N 
rear axle drag (including driveline) 
𝐷𝑡𝑦𝑟𝑒 
N 
tyre rolling resistance 
(𝑑ℎ/𝑑𝑠) 
- 
sine of the slope of the track in the direction of 
travel (+ indicates ascending) 
(𝑑𝑣/𝑑𝑡) 
m/s2 
acceleration 
𝑔 
m/s2 
gravitational constant 
𝑚𝑎𝑣 
kg 
arithmetic average mass of the test vehicle 
before and after road load determination  
me 
kg 
effective vehicle mass including rotating 
components 
𝜌 
kg/m3 
air density 
𝑡 
s 
time 
𝑇 
K 
Temperature 
𝑣 
km/h 
vehicle speed 
𝑣𝑟 
km/h 
relative wind speed 



--- PAGE 196 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 196 of 762 
 
𝑌 
degrees 
yaw angle of apparent wind relative to direction 
of vehicle travel 
 
 
4.3.2.5.1. General form 
The general form of the equation of motion is as follows: 
−𝑚𝑒(𝑑𝑣
𝑑𝑡) = 𝐷𝑚𝑒𝑐ℎ+ 𝐷𝑎𝑒𝑟𝑜+ 𝐷𝑔𝑟𝑎𝑣 
 
where: 
𝐷𝑚𝑒𝑐ℎ= 𝐷𝑡𝑦𝑟𝑒+ 𝐷𝑓+ 𝐷𝑟; 
𝐷𝑎𝑒𝑟𝑜= (
1
2) 𝜌𝐶𝐷(𝑌)𝐴𝑓𝑣𝑟
2; 
𝐷𝑔𝑟𝑎𝑣= 𝑚× 𝑔× (𝑑ℎ
𝑑𝑠) 
In the case that the slope of the test track is equal to or less than 0.1 per cent 
over its length, Dgrav may be set to zero. 
4.3.2.5.2. Mechanical drag modelling 
Mechanical drag consisting of separate components representing tyre 𝐷𝑡𝑦𝑟𝑒 and 
front and rear axle frictional losses 𝐷𝑓 and 𝐷𝑟 (including transmission losses) 
shall be modelled as a three-term polynomial as a function of vehicle speed v 
as in the equation below: 
𝐷𝑚𝑒𝑐ℎ= 𝐴𝑚+ 𝐵𝑚𝑣+ 𝐶𝑚𝑣2  
where 𝐴𝑚, 𝐵𝑚, and 𝐶𝑚 are determined in the data analysis using the least 
squares method. These constants reflect the combined driveline and tyre drag. 
In the case that the tested vehicle is the representative vehicle of a road load 
matrix family, the coefficient Bm shall be set to zero and the coefficients Am and 
Cm shall be recalculated with a least squares regression analysis. 
4.3.2.5.3. Aerodynamic drag modelling 
The aerodynamic drag coefficient 𝐶𝐷(Y) shall be modelled as a four-term 
polynomial as a function of yaw angle Y as in the equation below: 
 
𝐶𝐷(𝑌) = 𝑎0 + 𝑎1𝑌+ 𝑎2𝑌2 + 𝑎3𝑌3 + 𝑎4𝑌4 
 
𝑎0 to 𝑎4 are constant coefficients whose values are determined in the data 
analysis. 



--- PAGE 197 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 197 of 762 
 
The aerodynamic drag shall be determined by combining the drag coefficient 
with the vehicle’s frontal area Af and the relative wind velocity 𝑣𝑟:.  
𝐷𝑎𝑒𝑟𝑜= (1
2) × 𝜌× 𝐴𝑓× 𝑣𝑟
2 × 𝐶𝐷(𝑌) 
 
𝐷𝑎𝑒𝑟𝑜= (1
2) × 𝜌× 𝐴𝑓× 𝑣𝑟
2(𝑎0 + 𝑎1𝑌+ 𝑎2𝑌2 + 𝑎3𝑌3 + 𝑎4𝑌4) 
 
4.3.2.5.4. Final equation of motion 
Through substitution, the final form of the equation of motion becomes: 
-𝑚𝑒(
𝑑𝑣
𝑑𝑡) = 𝐴𝑚+ 𝐵𝑚𝑣+ 𝐶𝑚𝑣2 + (
1
2) × 𝜌× 𝐴𝑓× 𝑣𝑟
2(𝑎0 + 𝑎1𝑌+ 𝑎2𝑌2 +
𝑎3𝑌3 + 𝑎4𝑌4) + (𝑚× 𝑔×
𝑑ℎ
𝑑𝑠) 
4.3.2.6. 
Data reduction 
A three-term equation shall be generated to describe the road load force as a 
function of velocity, 𝐹= 𝐴+ 𝐵𝑣+ 𝐶𝑣2, corrected to standard ambient 
temperature and pressure conditions, and in still air. The method for this 
analysis process is described in paragraphs 4.3.2.6.1. to 4.3.2.6.10. inclusive of 
this annex.  
4.3.2.6.1. Determining calibration coefficients 
If not previously determined, calibration factors to correct for vehicle blockage 
shall be determined for relative wind speed and yaw angle. Vehicle speed 𝑣, 
relative wind velocity 𝑣𝑟 and yaw 𝑌 measurements during the warm-up phase 
of the test procedure shall be recorded. Paired runs in alternate directions on the 
test track at a constant velocity of 80 km/h shall be performed, and the 
arithmetic average values of 𝑣, 𝑣𝑟 and 𝑌 for each run shall be determined. 
Calibration factors that minimize the total errors in head and cross winds over 
all the run pairs, i.e. the sum of (ℎ𝑒𝑎𝑑𝑖 –  ℎ𝑒𝑎𝑑𝑖+1)2, etc., shall be selected 
where ℎ𝑒𝑎𝑑𝑖 and ℎ𝑒𝑎𝑑𝑖+1 refer to wind speed and wind direction from the 
paired test runs in opposing directions during the vehicle warm-up/stabilization 
prior to testing. 
4.3.2.6.2. Deriving second by second observations 
From the data collected during the coastdown runs, values for 𝑣, (
𝑑ℎ
𝑑𝑠) (
𝑑𝑣
𝑑𝑡), 𝑣𝑟
2, 
and 𝑌 shall be determined by applying calibration factors obtained in 
paragraphs 4.3.2.1.3. and 4.3.2.1.4. of this annex. Data filtering shall be used to 
adjust samples to a frequency of 1 Hz. 
4.3.2.6.3. Preliminary analysis 



--- PAGE 198 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 198 of 762 
 
Using a linear least squares regression technique, all data points shall be 
analysed at once to determine 𝐴𝑚,  𝐵𝑚,  𝐶𝑚,  𝑎0,  𝑎1,  𝑎2, 𝑎3 and 𝑎4 given 
𝑚𝑒, (
𝑑ℎ
𝑑𝑠) , (
𝑑𝑣
𝑑𝑡) , 𝑣, 𝑣𝑟, and 𝜌. 
4.3.2.6.4. Data outliers 
A predicted force 𝑚𝑒(
𝑑𝑣
𝑑𝑡) shall be calculated and compared to the observed 
data points. Data points with excessive deviations, e.g., over three standard 
deviations, shall be flagged. 
4.3.2.6.5. Data filtering (optional) 
Appropriate data filtering techniques may be applied and the remaining data 
points shall be smoothed out. 
4.3.2.6.6. Data elimination 
Data points gathered where yaw angles are greater than ±20 degrees from the 
direction of vehicle travel shall be flagged. Data points gathered where relative 
wind is less than + 5 km/h (to avoid conditions where tailwind speed is higher 
than vehicle speed) shall also be flagged. Data analysis shall be restricted to 
vehicle speeds within the speed range selected according to paragraph 4.3.2.2. 
of this annex. 
4.3.2.6.7. Final data analysis 
All data that has not been flagged shall be analysed using a linear least squares 
regression technique. Given 𝑚𝑒, (
𝑑ℎ
𝑑𝑠) , (
𝑑𝑣
𝑑𝑡) , 𝑣, 𝑣𝑟, and 𝜌, Am, Bm, Cm, a0, a1, a2, 
a3 and a4 shall be determined. 
4.3.2.6.8. Constrained analysis (optional) 
To better separate the vehicle aerodynamic and mechanical drag, a constrained 
analysis may be applied such that the vehicle’s frontal area 𝐴𝑓 and the drag 
coefficient 𝐶𝐷 may be fixed if they have been previously determined. 
4.3.2.6.9. Correction to reference conditions 
Equations of motion shall be corrected to reference conditions as specified in 
paragraph 4.5. of this annex. 
4.3.2.6.10 Statistical criteria for on-board anemometry 
The exclusion of each single pair of coastdown runs shall change the 
calculated road load for each coastdown reference speed 𝑣𝑗 less than the 
convergence requirement, for all 𝑖 and 𝑗: 
∆𝐹𝑖(𝑣𝑗)/𝐹(𝑣𝑗) ≤ 0.030
√𝑛−1
 



--- PAGE 199 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 199 of 762 
 
where: 
∆𝐹𝑖(𝑣𝑗)is the difference between the calculated road load with all coastdown 
runs and the calculated road load with the ith pair of coastdown runs excluded, 
N; 
𝐹(𝑣𝑗) is the calculated road load with all coastdown runs included, N; 
𝑣𝑗is the reference speed, km/h; 
𝑛 is the number of pairs of coastdown runs, all valid pairs are included. 
In the case that the convergence requirement is not met, pairs shall be removed 
from the analysis, starting with the pair giving the highest change in calculated 
road load, until the convergence requirement is met, as long as a minimum of 5 
valid pairs are used for the final road load determination. 
4.4. 
Measurement and calculation of running resistance using the torque meter 
method 
As an alternative to the coastdown methods, the torque meter method may also 
be used in which the running resistance is determined by measuring wheel 
torque on the driven wheels at the reference speed points for time periods of at 
least 5 seconds. 
4.4.1. 
Installation of torque meters 
Wheel torque meters shall be installed between the wheel hub and the wheel of 
each driven wheel, measuring the required torque to keep the vehicle at a 
constant speed. 
The torque meter shall be calibrated on a regular basis, at least once a year, 
traceable to national or international standards, in order to meet the required 
accuracy and precision. 
4.4.2. 
Procedure and data sampling 
4.4.2.1. 
Selection of reference speeds for running resistance curve determination 
Reference speed points for running resistance determination shall be selected 
according to paragraph 2.2. of this annex. 
The reference speeds shall be measured in descending order. At the request of the 
manufacturer, there may be stabilization periods between measurements but the 
stabilization speed shall not exceed the speed of the next reference speed. 
4.4.2.2. 
Data collection 
Data sets consisting of actual speed 𝑣𝑗𝑖 actual torque 𝐶𝑗𝑖 and time over a period 
of at least 5 seconds shall be measured for every 𝑣𝑗 at a sampling frequency of 



--- PAGE 200 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 200 of 762 
 
at least 10 Hz. The data sets collected over one time period for a reference speed 
𝑣𝑗 shall be referred to as one measurement. 
4.4.2.3. 
Vehicle torque meter measurement procedure 
Prior to the torque meter method test measurement, a vehicle warm-up shall be 
performed according to paragraph 4.2.4. of this annex. 
During test measurement, steering wheel movement shall be avoided as much 
as possible, and the vehicle brakes shall not be operated. 
The test shall be repeated until the running resistance data satisfy the measurement 
precision requirements as specified in paragraph 4.4.3.2. of this annex. 
4.4.2.4. 
Velocity deviation 
During a measurement at a single reference speed point, the velocity deviation 
from the arithmetic average velocity (vji-vjm) calculated according to 
paragraph 4.4.3. of this annex, shall be within the values in Table A4/6. 
Additionally, the arithmetic average velocity vjm at every reference speed point 
shall not deviate from the reference speed vj by more than ±1 km/h or 2 per cent 
of the reference speed vj, whichever is greater. 
 
Table A4/6 
Velocity deviation 
 
Time period, s 
Velocity deviation, km/h 
5 - 10 
±0.2 
10 - 15 
±0.4 
15 - 20 
±0.6 
20 - 25 
±0.8 
25 - 30 
±1.0 
≥ 30 
±1.2 
4.4.2.5. 
Atmospheric temperature 
Tests shall be performed under the same temperature conditions as defined in 
paragraph 4.1.1.2. of this annex. 
4.4.3. 
Calculation of arithmetic average velocity and arithmetic average torque 
4.4.3.1. 
Calculation process 
Arithmetic average velocity 𝑣𝑗𝑚, km/h, and arithmetic average torque 𝐶𝑗𝑚, in 
Nm, of each measurement shall be calculated from the data sets collected 



--- PAGE 201 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 201 of 762 
 
according to the requirements of paragraph 4.4.2.2. of this annex using the 
following equations: 
𝑣𝑗𝑚= 1
𝑘∑𝑣𝑗𝑖
𝑘
𝑖=1
 
and 
𝐶𝑗𝑚= 1
𝑘∑𝐶𝑗𝑖− 𝐶𝑗𝑠
𝑘
𝑖=1
 
 
where: 
 
𝑣𝑗𝑖 
is the actual vehicle speed of the ith data set at reference speed point 
j, km/h; 
𝑘 
is the number of data sets in a single measurement; 
𝐶𝑗𝑖 
is the actual torque of the ith data set, Nm; 
𝐶𝑗𝑠 
is the compensation term for speed drift, Nm, given by the following 
equation: 
𝐶𝑗𝑠= (𝑚𝑠𝑡+ 𝑚𝑟) × 𝛼𝑗𝑟𝑗. 
 
𝐶𝑗𝑠
1
𝑘∑
𝐶𝑗𝑖
𝑘
𝑖=1
 
 
 
       shall be no greater than 0.05 and may be disregarded if 𝛼𝑗 is not greater 
than ±0.005 m/s2; 
𝑚𝑠𝑡 is the test vehicle mass at the start of the measurements and shall be 
measured immediately before the warm-up procedure and no earlier, kg; 
mr is the equivalent effective mass of rotating components according to 
paragraph 2.5.1. of this annex, kg;  
𝑟𝑗 
is the dynamic radius of the tyre determined at a reference point of 
80 km/h or at the highest reference speed point of the vehicle if this speed 
is lower than 80 km/h, calculated using the following equation: 
𝑟𝑗= 1
3.6 ×
𝑣𝑗𝑚
2 × 𝜋𝑛 
 
where: 
𝑛 is the rotational frequency of the driven tyre, s-1; 



--- PAGE 202 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 202 of 762 
 
𝛼𝑗 is the arithmetic average acceleration, m/s2, calculated using the following 
equation: 
∝𝑗= 1
3.6 × 𝑘∑
𝑡𝑖𝑣𝑗𝑖−∑
𝑡𝑖
𝑘
𝑖=1
∑
𝑣𝑗𝑖
𝑘
𝑖=1
𝑘
𝑖=1
𝑘× ∑
𝑡𝑖
2 −[∑
𝑡𝑖
𝑘
𝑖=1
]2
𝑘
𝑖=1
 
 
where:  
 𝑡𝑖  is the time at which the ith data set was sampled, s. 
4.4.3.2. 
Measurement precision 
The measurements shall be carried out in opposite directions until a minimum 
of three pairs of measurements at each reference speed 𝑣𝑖 have been obtained, 
for which 𝐶𝑗̅ satisfies the precision ρj according to the following equation: 
𝜌𝑗= ℎ× 𝑠
√𝑛× 𝐶𝑗̅  ≤0.030 
where: 
𝑛 is the number pairs of measurements for 𝐶𝑗𝑚; 
𝐶𝑗̅ is the running resistance at the speed 𝑣𝑗, Nm, given by the equation: 
𝐶𝑗̅ =
1
𝑛∑
𝐶𝑗𝑚𝑖
𝑛
𝑖=1
  
 where: 
𝐶𝑗𝑚𝑖 is the arithmetic average torque of the ith pair of measurements at speed 
𝑣𝑗, Nm, and given by: 
𝐶𝑗𝑚𝑖= 
1
2 × (𝐶𝑗𝑚𝑎𝑖+ 𝐶𝑗𝑚𝑏𝑖)  
 
 
where: 
 
𝐶𝑗𝑚𝑎𝑖 and 𝐶𝑗𝑚𝑏𝑖 are the arithmetic average torques of the ith measurement at 
speed 𝑣𝑗 determined in paragraph 4.4.3.1. of this annex for each direction, a 
and b respectively, Nm; 
𝑠 is the standard deviation, Nm, calculated using the following equation: 
𝑠= √
1
𝑘−1 ∑(𝐶𝑗𝑚𝑖−𝐶𝑗̅)
2
𝑘
𝑖=1
 
 
ℎ is a coefficient as a function of n as given in Table A4/4 in 
paragraph 4.3.1.4.2. of this annex. 
4.4.4. 
Running resistance curve determination 



--- PAGE 203 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 203 of 762 
 
The arithmetic average speed and arithmetic average torque at each reference 
speed point shall be calculated using the following equations: 
Vjm = ½ × (vjma + vjmb) 
Cjm = ½ × (Cjma +Cjmb) 
The following least squares regression curve of arithmetic average running 
resistance shall be fitted to all the data pairs (𝑣𝑗𝑚, 𝐶𝑗𝑚) at all reference speeds 
described in paragraph 4.4.2.1. of this annex to determine the coefficients c0, 
c1 and c2. 
The coefficients, 𝑐0, 𝑐1 and 𝑐2, as well as the coastdown times measured on the 
chassis dynamometer (see paragraph 8.2.4. of this annex) shall be recorded. 
In the case that the tested vehicle is the representative vehicle of a road load 
matrix family, the coefficient c1 shall be set to zero and the coefficients c0 and 
c2 shall be recalculated with a least squares regression analysis. 
4.5. 
Correction to reference conditions and measurement equipment 
4.5.1 
Air resistance correction factor 
The correction factor for air resistance K2 shall be determined using the 
following equation: 
𝐾2 = 
𝑇
293 𝐾×
100 𝑘𝑃𝑎
𝑃
   
 
where: 
 
𝑇 is the arithmetic average atmospheric temperature of all individual runs, 
Kelvin (K); 
𝑃 is the arithmetic average atmospheric pressure, kPa. 
4.5.2 
Rolling resistance correction factor 
The correction factor 𝐾0 for rolling resistance, in Celsius-1 (°C-1), may be 
determined based on empirical data and approved by the Test Agency for the 
particular vehicle and tyre combination to be tested, or may be assumed to be 
as follows: 
𝐾0 = 8.6 × 10−3 °𝐶−1  
4.5.3. 
Wind correction 
4.5.3.1. 
Wind correction when using stationary anemometry 
Wind correction may be waived when the arithmetic average wind speed for 
each valid run pair is 2 m/s or less. In the case that wind speed is measured at 
more than one part of the test track, such as when the test is performed on an 
oval test track (see paragraph 4.1.1.1.1. of this annex), the wind speed shall be 



--- PAGE 204 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 204 of 762 
 
averaged at each measurement location and the higher of two average wind 
speeds shall be used to determine whether a wind speed correction is to be 
applied or may be waived. 
4.5.3.1.1. 
The wind correction resistance 𝑤1 for the coastdown method or w2 for the 
torque meter method shall be calculated using the following equations: 
𝑤1 = 3.62 × 𝑓2 × 𝑣𝑤
2 
𝑤2 = 3.62 × 𝑐2 × 𝑣𝑤
2 
where: 
𝑤1 is the wind correction resistance for the coastdown method, N; 
𝑓2 is the coefficient of the aerodynamic term determined according to 
paragraph 4.3.1.4.4. of this annex; 
𝑣𝑤 in the case that wind speed is measured at only one point, vw is the 
arithmetic average vector component of the wind speed parallel to the test 
road during all valid run pairs m/s; 
𝑣𝑤  in the case that the wind speed is measured at two points, vw is the lower 
of the two arithmetic average vector components of the wind speed parallel 
to the test road during all valid run pairs, m/s; 
𝑤2 is the wind correction resistance for the torque meter method, Nm; 
𝑐2   is the coefficient of the aerodynamic of the aerodynamic term for the torque 
meter method determined according to paragraph 4.4.4 of this Annex. 
4.5.3.2
 
 
Wind correction when using on-board anemometry 
In the case that the coastdown method is based on on-board anemometry, w1 
and w2 in the equations in paragraph 4.5.3.1.1. of this annex shall be set to zero, 
as the wind correction is already applied according to paragraph 4.3.2. of this 
annex. 
4.5.4. 
Test mass correction factor 
The correction factor 𝐾1 for the test mass of the test vehicle shall be determined 
using the following equation: 
𝐾1 = (1 −𝑇𝑀
𝑚𝑎𝑣
) 
where: 
𝑇𝑀 is the test mass of the test vehicle, kg; 
𝑚𝑎𝑣 is the arithmetic average of the test vehicle masses at the beginning and 
end of road load determination, kg. 



--- PAGE 205 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 205 of 762 
 
4.5.5. 
Road load curve correction 
4.5.5.1. 
The curve determined in paragraph 4.3.1.4.4. of this annex shall be corrected 
to reference conditions as follows: 
𝐹∗= ((𝑓0(1 −𝐾1) − 𝑤1) + 𝑓1𝑣) × (1 + 𝐾0(𝑇−20)) + 𝐾2𝑓2𝑣2 
where: 
𝐹∗ 
is the corrected road load, N; 
𝑓0 
is the constant road load coefficient, N; 
𝑓1 
is the first order road load coefficient, N/(km/h); 
𝑓2 
is the second order road load coefficient, N/(km/h)2; 
𝐾0 
is the correction factor for rolling resistance as defined in 
paragraph 4.5.2. of this annex; 
𝐾1 
is the test mass correction as defined in paragraph 4.5.4. of this annex; 
𝐾2 
is the correction factor for air resistance as defined in paragraph 4.5.1. of 
this annex; 
𝑇 
is the arithmetic average atmospheric temperature during all valid run 
pairs, °C; 
𝑣 
is vehicle velocity, km/h; 
𝑤1 
is the wind resistance correction as defined in paragraph 4.5.3. of this 
annex, N. 
 
The result of the calculation below shall be used as the target road load 
coefficient At in the calculation of the chassis dynamometer load setting 
described in paragraph 8.1. of this annex: 
((𝑓0(1 −𝐾1) − 𝑤1)) × (1 + 𝐾0(𝑇−20)). 
The result of the calculation below shall be used as the target road load 
coefficient Bt in the calculation of the chassis dynamometer load setting 
described in paragraph 8.1. of this annex: 
(f1 × (1 + K0 × (T-20))). 
The result of the calculation below shall be used as the target road load 
coefficient Ct in the calculation of the chassis dynamometer load setting 
described in paragraph 8.1. of this annex: 
(K2 × f2). 



--- PAGE 206 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 206 of 762 
 
4.5.5.2. 
The curve determined in paragraph 4.4.4. of this annex shall be corrected to 
reference conditions and measurement equipment installed according to the 
following procedure. 
4.5.5.2.1. 
 Correction to reference conditions 
𝐶∗= ((𝑐0(1 −𝐾1) − 𝑤2) + 𝑐1𝑣) × (1 + 𝐾0(𝑇−20)) + 𝐾2𝐶2𝑣2 
 
where: 
𝐶∗ 
is the corrected running resistance, Nm; 
𝑐0 
is the constant term as determined in paragraph 4.4.4. of this annex, Nm; 
𝑐1 
is the coefficient of the first order term as determined in paragraph 4.4.4. 
of this annex, Nm/(km/h); 
𝑐2 
is the coefficient of the second order term as determined in 
paragraph 4.4.4. of this annex, Nm/(km/h)2; 
𝐾0 
is the correction factor for rolling resistance as defined in 
paragraph 4.5.2. of this annex; 
𝐾1 
is the test mass correction as defined in paragraph 4.5.4. of this annex; 
𝐾2 
is the correction factor for air resistance as defined in paragraph 4.5.1. of 
this annex; 
𝑣 
is the vehicle velocity, km/h; 
T 
is the arithmetic average atmospheric temperature during all valid run 
pairs, °C; 
𝑤2 
is the wind correction resistance as defined in paragraph 4.5.3. of this 
annex. 
4.5.5.2.2. 
Correction for installed torque meters 
If the running resistance is determined according to the torque meter method, the 
running resistance shall be corrected for effects of the torque measurement 
equipment installed outside the vehicle on its aerodynamic characteristics. 
The running resistance coefficient c2 shall be corrected using the following 
equation: 
c2corr = K2 × c2 × (1 + (∆(CD × Af))/(CD’ × Af’)) 
 where: 
∆(CD × Af) = (CD × Af) - (CD’ × Af’) ; 
CD’ × Af’ is the product of the aerodynamic drag coefficient multiplied by the 
frontal area of the vehicle with the torque meter measurement 



--- PAGE 207 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 207 of 762 
 
equipment installed measured in a wind tunnel fulfilling the criteria of 
paragraph 3.2. of this annex, m²; 
CD × Af  
is the product of the aerodynamic drag coefficient multiplied by the 
frontal area of the vehicle with the torque meter measurement 
equipment not installed measured in a wind tunnel fulfilling the criteria 
of paragraph 3.2. of this annex, m². 
4.5.5.2.3. 
Target running resistance coefficients 
The result of the calculation below shall be used as the target running resistance 
coefficient at in the calculation of the chassis dynamometer load setting described 
in paragraph 8.2. of this annex: 
((𝑐0(1 −𝐾1) − 𝑤2)) × (1 + 𝐾0(𝑇−20)). 
The result of the calculation below shall be used as the target running resistance 
coefficient bt in the calculation of the chassis dynamometer load setting described 
in paragraph 8.2. of this annex: 
(c1 × (1 + K0 × (T-20))). 
The result of the calculation below shall be used as the target running resistance 
coefficient ct in the calculation of the chassis dynamometer load setting described 
in paragraph 8.2. of this annex: 
(c2corr × r). 
5.0 
Method for the calculation of road load or running resistance based on vehicle 
parameters 
5.1. 
Calculation of road load and running resistance for vehicles based on a 
representative vehicle of a road load matrix family 
If the road load of the representative vehicle is determined according to a 
coastdown method described in paragraph 4.3. of this annex or according to the 
wind tunnel method described in paragraph 6. of this annex, the road load of an 
individual vehicle shall be calculated according to paragraph 5.1.1. of this annex. 
If the running resistance of the representative vehicle is determined according to 
the torque meter method described in paragraph 4.4. of this annex, the running 
resistance of an individual vehicle shall be calculated according to 
paragraph 5.1.2. of this annex. 
5.1.1. 
For the calculation of the road load of vehicles of a road load matrix family, 
the vehicle parameters described in paragraph 4.2.1.4. of this annex and the 
road load coefficients of the representative test vehicle determined in 
paragraph 4.3. of this annex shall be used. 
5.1.1.1. 
The road load force for an individual vehicle shall be calculated using the 
following equation: 
𝐹𝑐= 𝑓0 + (𝑓1 × 𝑣) + (𝑓2 × 𝑣2) 



--- PAGE 208 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 208 of 762 
 
 
 
where: 
Fc 
is the calculated road load force as a function of vehicle velocity, N; 
f0 
is the constant road load coefficient, N, defined by the equation: 
f0 = Max((0.05 × f0r + 0.95 × (f0r × TM/TMr + (
𝑅𝑅 – 𝑅𝑅𝑟
1000 ) × 9.81 × TM)); 
(0.2 × f0r + 0.8 × (f0r × TM/TMr + (
𝑅𝑅 – 𝑅𝑅𝑟
1000 ) × 9.81 × TM))) 
 
f0r 
is the constant road load coefficient of the representative vehicle of the 
road load matrix family, N; 
f1 
is the first order road load coefficient, N/(km/h), and shall be set to 
 
zero; 
f2 
is the second order road load coefficient, N/(km/h)², defined by the 
equation:  
 
f2 = Max((0.05 × f2r + 0.95 × f2r × Af / Afr); (0.2 × f2r + 0.8 × f2r × Af / Afr)) 
 
f2r 
is the second order road load coefficient of the representative vehicle of 
the road load matrix family, N/(km/h)²; 
v 
is the vehicle speed, km/h; 
TM is the actual test mass of the individual vehicle of the road load matrix 
family, kg; 
TMr is the test mass of the representative vehicle of the road load matrix 
family, kg; 
Af 
 is the frontal area of the individual vehicle of the road load matrix family, 
m², 
Afr 
is the frontal area of the representative vehicle of the road load matrix 
family, m2;  
RR is the tyre rolling resistance of the individual vehicle of the road load 
matrix family, kg/tonne;  
RRr is the tyre rolling resistance of the representative vehicle of the road load 
matrix family, kg/tonne. 
 
For the tyres fitted to an individual vehicle, the value of the rolling resistance 
RR shall be set to the class value of the applicable tyre energy efficiency class 
according to Table A4/2 of Annex B4. 



--- PAGE 209 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 209 of 762 
 
If the tyres on the front and rear axles belong to different energy efficiency 
classes, the weighted mean shall be used, calculated using the equation in 
paragraph 3.2.3.2.2.2. of Annex B7. 
If the same tyres were fitted to test vehicles L and H, the value of RRind when 
using the interpolation method shall be set to RRH. 
5.1.2. 
For the calculation of the running resistance of vehicles of a road load matrix 
family, the vehicle parameters described in paragraph 4.2.1.4. of this annex and 
the running resistance coefficients of the representative test vehicle determined 
in paragraph 4.4. of this annex shall be used. 
5.1.2.1. 
The running resistance for an individual vehicle shall be calculated using the 
following equation: 
𝐶𝑐= 𝑐0 + 𝑐1 × 𝑣+ 𝑐2 × 𝑣2 
 
 where: 
 
Cc is the calculated running resistance as a function of vehicle velocity, Nm; 
c0 is the constant running resistance coefficient, Nm, defined by the equation: 
c0 = r’/1.02 × Max((0.05 × 1.02 × c0r/r’ + 0.95 × (1.02 × c0r/r’ × TM/TMr + (
𝑅𝑅 – 𝑅𝑅𝑟
1000 ) 
× 9.81 × TM));  
(0.2 × 1.02 × c0r/r’ + 0.8 × (1.02 × c0r/r’ × TM/TMr + (
𝑅𝑅 – 𝑅𝑅𝑟
1000 ) × 9.81 × TM))) 
c0r is the constant running resistance coefficient of the representative vehicle 
of the road load matrix family, Nm; 
c1 is the first order running resistance coefficient, Nm/(km/h), and shall be set 
to zero; 
c2 is the second order running resistance coefficient, Nm/(km/h)², defined by 
the equation:  
c2 = r’/1.02 × Max((0.05 × 1.02 × c2r/r’ + 0.95 × 1.02 × c2r/r’ × Af / Afr); (0.2 × 
1.02 × c2r/r’ + 0.8 × 1.02 ×c2r/r’ × Af / Afr)) 
c2r 
is the second order running resistance coefficient of the representative 
vehicle of the road load matrix family, N/(km/h)2; 
v 
is the vehicle speed, km/h; 
TM is the actual test mass of the individual vehicle of the road load matrix 
family, kg; 
TMr is the test mass of the representative vehicle of the road load matrix 
family, kg; 



--- PAGE 210 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 210 of 762 
 
 
Af 
is the frontal area of the individual vehicle of the road load matrix family, 
m²; 
Afr 
is the frontal area of the representative vehicle of the road load matrix 
family, m2;  
RR is the tyre rolling resistance of the individual vehicle of the road load 
matrix family, kg/tonne;  
RRr is the tyre rolling resistance of the representative vehicle of the road load 
matrix family, kg/tonne; 
r’ 
is the dynamic radius of the tyre on the chassis dynamometer obtained at 
80 km/h, m; 
1.02 is an approximate coefficient compensating for drivetrain losses. 
5.2 
Calculation of the default road load based on vehicle parameters 
5.2.1. 
As an alternative for determining road load with the coastdown or torque meter 
method, a calculation method for default road load may be used. 
For the calculation of a default road load based on vehicle parameters, several 
parameters such as test mass, width and height of the vehicle shall be used. The 
default road load Fc shall be calculated for the reference speed points.  
5.2.2. 
The default road load force shall be calculated using the following equation: 
 
𝐹𝑐= 𝑓0 + (𝑓1 × 𝑣) + (𝑓2 × 𝑣2) 
 
where: 
𝐹𝑐 is the calculated default road load force as a function of vehicle velocity, N; 
𝑓0 is the constant road load coefficient, N, defined by the following equation: 
𝑓0 = 0.140 × 𝑇𝑀;  
𝑓1 is the first order road load coefficient, N/(km/h), and shall be set to zero; 
𝑓2 is the second order road load coefficient, N/(km/h)2, defined by the 
following equation: 
𝑓2 = (2.8 × 10−6 × 𝑇𝑀) + (0.0170 × 𝑤𝑖𝑑𝑡ℎ× ℎ𝑒𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡); 
𝑣 is vehicle velocity, km/h; 
𝑇𝑀 test mass, kg; 
𝑤𝑖𝑑𝑡ℎ vehicle width as defined in 6.2. of Standard ISO 612:1978, m; 
ℎ𝑒𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡 vehicle height as defined in 6.3. of Standard ISO 612:1978, m. 



--- PAGE 211 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 211 of 762 
 
6.0 
Wind tunnel method 
The wind tunnel method is a road load measurement method using a 
combination of a wind tunnel and a chassis dynamometer or of a wind tunnel 
and a flat belt dynamometer. The test benches may be separate facilities or 
integrated with one another. 
6.1. 
Measurement method 
6.1.1. 
The road load shall be determined by: 
(a) Adding the road load forces measured in a wind tunnel and those 
measured using a flat belt dynamometer; or 
(b) Adding the road load forces measured in a wind tunnel and those 
measured on a chassis dynamometer. 
6.1.2. 
Aerodynamic drag shall be measured in the wind tunnel. 
6.1.3. 
Rolling resistance and drivetrain losses shall be measured using a flat belt or a 
chassis dynamometer, measuring the front and rear axles simultaneously. 
6.2. 
Approval of the facilities by the Test Agency 
The results of the wind tunnel method shall be compared to those obtained 
using the coastdown method to demonstrate qualification of the facilities and 
recorded. 
6.2.1. 
Three vehicles shall be selected by the Test Agency. The vehicles shall cover 
the range of vehicles (e.g. size, weight) planned to be measured with the 
facilities concerned. 
6.2.2. 
Two separate coastdown tests shall be performed with each of the three 
vehicles according to paragraph 4.3. of this annex, and the resulting road load 
coefficients, f0, f1 and f2, shall be determined according to that paragraph and 
corrected according to paragraph 4.5.5. of this annex. The coastdown test result 
of a test vehicle shall be the arithmetic average of the road load coefficients of 
its two separate coastdown tests. If more than two coastdown tests are 
necessary to fulfil the approval of facilities' criteria, all valid tests shall be 
averaged. 
6.2.3. 
Measurement with the wind tunnel method according to paragraphs 6.3. to 6.7. 
inclusive of this annex shall be performed on the same three vehicles as 
selected in paragraph 6.2.1. of this annex and in the same conditions, and the 
resulting road load coefficients, f0, f1 and f2, shall be determined.  
If the manufacturer chooses to use one or more of the available alternative 
procedures within the wind tunnel method (i.e. paragraph 6.5.2.1. on 
preconditioning, paragraphs 6.5.2.2. and 6.5.2.3. on the procedure, including 
paragraph 6.5.2.3.3. on dynamometer setting), these procedures shall also be 
used also for the approval of the facilities.  



--- PAGE 212 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 212 of 762 
 
6.2.4. 
Approval criteria 
The facility or combination of facilities used shall be approved if both of the 
following two criteria are fulfilled:  
The difference in cycle energy, expressed as εk, between the wind tunnel 
method and the coastdown method shall be within ±0.05 for each of the three 
vehicles k according to the following equation: 
 
𝜀𝑘= 
𝐸𝑘,𝑊𝑇𝑀
𝐸𝑘,𝑐𝑜𝑎𝑠𝑡𝑑𝑜𝑤𝑛
−1  
 
where: 
εk 
is the difference in cycle energy over a complete Class 3 WLTC for 
vehicle k between the wind tunnel method and the coastdown method, per cent; 
Ek,WTM 
is the cycle energy over a complete Class 3 WLTC for vehicle k, 
calculated with the road load derived from the wind tunnel method (WTM) 
calculated according to paragraph 5. of Annex B7 J; 
Ek,coastdown is the cycle energy over a complete Class 3 WLTC for vehicle k, 
calculated with the road load derived from the coastdown method calculated 
according to paragraph 5. of Annex B7, J.; and 
(a) The arithmetic average 𝑥̅ of the three differences shall be within 0.02. 
𝑥̅ = | 𝜀1 + 𝜀2 + 𝜀3
3
| 
The approval shall be recorded by the Test Agency including measurement 
data and the facilities concerned.  
The facility may be used for road load determination for a maximum of two 
years after the approval has been granted.  
Each combination of roller chassis dynamometer or moving belt and wind 
tunnel shall be approved separately.  
Every combination of wind speeds (see paragraph 6.4.3. of this annex) used for 
the determination of road load values shall be validated separately. 
6.3. 
Vehicle preparation and temperature 
Conditioning and preparation of the vehicle shall be performed according to 
paragraphs 4.2.1. and 4.2.2. of this annex and applies to both the flat belt or 
roller chassis dynamometers and the wind tunnel measurements. 
In the case that the alternative warm-up procedure described in 
paragraph 6.5.2.1. of this annex is applied, the target test mass adjustment, the 



--- PAGE 213 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 213 of 762 
 
weighing of the vehicle and the measurement shall all be performed without 
the driver in the vehicle. 
The flat belt or the chassis dynamometer test cells shall have a temperature set 
point of 20 °C with a tolerance of ±3 °C. At the request of the manufacturer, 
the set point may also be 23 °C with a tolerance of ±3 °C. 
6.4 
Wind tunnel procedure 
6.4.1 
Wind tunnel criteria 
The wind tunnel design, test methods and the corrections shall provide a value 
of (CD × Af) representative of the on-road (CD × Af) value and with a 
repeatability of ±0.015 m². 
For all (CD × Af) measurements, the wind tunnel criteria listed in paragraph 3.2. 
of this annex shall be met with the following modifications: 
 
(a) 
The solid blockage ratio described in paragraph 3.2.4. of this annex shall 
be less than 25 per cent; 
(b) 
The belt surface contacting any tyre shall exceed the length of that tyre's 
contact area by at least 20 per cent and shall be at least as wide as that 
contact patch; 
(c) 
The standard deviation of total air pressure at the nozzle outlet described 
in paragraph 3.2.8. of this annex shall be less than 1 per cent; 
(d) 
The restraint system blockage ratio described in paragraph 3.2.10. of this 
annex shall be less than 3 per cent; 
(e) 
Additionally to the requirement defined in paragraph 3.2.11. of this 
annex, when measuring Class 1 vehicles, the precision of the measured 
force shall not exceed ±2.0 N. 
6.4.2. 
Wind tunnel measurement 
The vehicle shall be in the condition described in paragraph 6.3. of this annex. 
The vehicle shall be placed parallel to the longitudinal centre line of the tunnel 
with a maximum tolerance of ±10 mm. 
The vehicle shall be placed with a yaw angle of 0 ° within a tolerance of ±0.1°. 
Aerodynamic drag shall be measured for at least for 60 seconds and at a 
minimum frequency of 5 Hz. Alternatively, the drag may be measured at a 
minimum frequency of 1 Hz and with at least 300 subsequent samples. The 
result shall be the arithmetic average of the drag. 
Prior to a test it shall be checked that at the aerodynamic force measured at a 
wind speed of 0 km/h yields a result equal to 0 Newtons. 



--- PAGE 214 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 214 of 762 
 
In the case that the vehicle has movable aerodynamic body parts, 
paragraph 4.2.1.5. of this annex shall apply. Where movable parts are velocity-
dependent, every applicable position shall be measured in the wind tunnel and 
evidence shall be provided to the Test Agency indicating the relationship 
between reference speed, movable part position, and the corresponding 
(CD × Af). 
6.4.3 
Wind speeds for wind tunnel measurement 
The aerodynamic force shall be measured at two wind speeds under the 
following speed conditions:  
 
(a) 
Class 1 vehicles 
Lower wind speed vlow to measure aerodynamic force shall be 
vlow < 80 km/h;  
Higher wind speed vhigh shall be (vlow + 40 km/h ≤ vhigh ≤ 150 km/h). 
(b) 
Class 2 and 3 vehicles 
Lower wind speed vlow to measure aerodynamic force shall be 
80 km/h ≤ vlow ≤ 100 km/h; 
Higher wind speed shall be (vlow + 40 km/h ≤ vhigh ≤ 150 km). 
6.5. 
 Flat belt applied for the wind tunnel method 
6.5.1 
 Flat belt criteria 
6.5.1.1. 
Description of the flat belt test bench 
The wheels shall rotate on flat belts that do not change the rolling 
characteristics of the wheels compared to those on the road. The measured 
forces in the x-direction shall include the frictional forces in the drivetrain. 
6.5.1.2. 
Vehicle restraint system 
The dynamometer shall be equipped with a centring device aligning the vehicle 
within a tolerance of ±0.5 degrees of rotation around the z-axis. The restraint 
system shall maintain the centred drive wheel position throughout the coastdown 
runs of the road load determination within the following limits: 
6.5.1.2.1. 
Lateral position (y-axis)  
The vehicle shall remain aligned in the y-direction and lateral movement shall 
be minimised. 
6.5.1.2.2. 
Front and rear position (x-axis) 
Additional to the requirement of paragraph 6.5.1.2.1. of this annex, both wheel 
axes shall be within ±10 mm of the belt’s lateral centre lines. 



--- PAGE 215 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 215 of 762 
 
6.5.1.2.3. 
Vertical force 
The restraint system shall be designed so as to impose no vertical force on the 
drive wheels. 
6.5.1.3. 
Accuracy of measured forces 
Only the reaction force for turning the wheels shall be measured. No external 
forces shall be included in the result (e.g. force of the cooling fan air, vehicle 
restraints, aerodynamic reaction forces of the flat belt, dynamometer losses, etc.). 
The force in the x-direction shall be measured with an accuracy of ±5 N. 
6.5.1.4. 
Flat belt speed control 
The belt speed shall be controlled with an accuracy of ±0.1 km/h. 
6.5.1.5. 
Flat belt surface 
The flat belt surface shall be clean, dry and free from foreign material that 
might cause tyre slippage. 
6.5.1.6. 
Cooling 
A current of air of variable speed shall be blown towards the vehicle. The set 
point of the linear velocity of the air at the blower outlet shall be equal to the 
corresponding dynamometer speed above measurement speeds of 5 km/h. The 
linear velocity of the air at the blower outlet shall be within ±5 km/h or 
±10 per cent of the corresponding measurement speed, whichever is greater. 
6.5.2. 
Flat belt measurement 
The measurement procedure may be performed according to either 
paragraph 6.5.2.2. or paragraph 6.5.2.3. of this annex. 
6.5.2.1. 
Preconditioning 
The vehicle shall be conditioned on the dynamometer as described in 
paragraphs 4.2.4.1.1. to 4.2.4.1.3. inclusive of this annex.  
The dynamometer load setting Fd for the preconditioning shall be: 
𝐹𝑑= 𝑎𝑑+ (𝑏𝑑× 𝑣) + (𝑐𝑑× 𝑣2) 
where in the case of applying paragraph 6.7.2.1: 
ad = 0 
bd = f1a;  
𝑐𝑑= 𝑓2𝑎 



--- PAGE 216 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 216 of 762 
 
or, where in the case of applying paragraph 6.7.2.2.: 
ad = 0 
bd = 0 
𝑐𝑑= (𝐶𝐷× 𝐴𝑓) × 𝜌0
2 ×
1
3.62 
The equivalent inertia of the dynamometer shall be the test mass. 
The aerodynamic drag used for the load setting shall be taken from 
paragraph 6.7.2. of this annex and may be set directly as input. Otherwise, ad, 
bd, and cd from this paragraph shall be used. 
At the request of the manufacturer, as an alternative to paragraph 4.2.4.1.2. of 
this annex, the warm-up may be conducted by driving the vehicle with the flat 
belt.  
In this case, the warm-up speed shall be 110 per cent of the maximum speed of 
the applicable WLTC. The warm up is considered complete when the vehicle 
has been driven for at least 1,200 seconds and the change of measured force 
over a period of 200 seconds is less than 5 N. 
6.5.2.2. 
Measurement procedure with stabilised speeds 
6.5.2.2.1. 
The test shall be conducted from the highest to the lowest reference speed 
point. 
6.5.2.2.2. 
Immediately after the measurement at the previous speed point, the 
deceleration from the current to the next applicable reference speed point shall 
be performed in a smooth transition of approximately 1 m/s². 
6.5.2.2.3. 
The reference speed shall be stabilised for at least 4 seconds and for a 
maximum of 10 seconds. The measurement equipment shall ensure that the 
signal of the measured force is stabilised after that period. 
6.5.2.2.4. 
The force at each reference speed shall be measured for at least 6 seconds while 
the vehicle speed is kept constant. The resulting force for that reference speed 
point FjDyno shall be the arithmetic average of the force during the measurement. 
6.5.2.2.5. 
The steps in paragraphs 6.5.2.2.2. to 6.5.2.2.4. inclusive of this annex shall be 
repeated for each reference speed. 
6.5.2.3. 
Measurement procedure by deceleration 
6.5.2.3.1. 
Preconditioning and dynamometer setting shall be performed according to 
paragraph 6.5.2.1. of this annex. Prior to each coastdown, the vehicle shall be 
driven at the highest reference speed or, in the case that the alternative warm-
up procedure is used at 110 per cent of the highest reference speed, for at least 
1 minute. The vehicle shall be subsequently accelerated to at least 10 km/h 



--- PAGE 217 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 217 of 762 
 
above the highest reference speed and the coastdown shall be started 
immediately. 
6.5.2.3.2. 
The measurement shall be performed according to paragraphs 4.3.1.3.1. to 
4.3.1.4.4. inclusive of this annex but excluding paragraph 4.3.1.4.2., where 
∆𝑡𝑗𝑎 and ∆𝑡𝑗𝑏 are replaced by ∆𝑡𝑗. The measurement shall be stopped after two 
decelerations if the force of both coastdowns at each reference speed point is 
within ±10 N, otherwise at least three coastdowns shall be performed using the 
criteria set out in paragraph 4.3.1.4.2. of this annex. 
6.5.2.3.3. 
The force fjDyno at each reference speed vj shall be calculated by removing the 
dynamometer set force: 
𝑓𝑗𝐷𝑦𝑛𝑜= 𝑓𝑗𝐷𝑒𝑐𝑒𝑙 − 𝑓𝑑𝑗  
where: 
fjDecel is the force determined according to the equation calculating Fj in 
paragraph 4.3.1.4.4. of this annex at reference speed point j, N; 
𝑓𝑑𝑗 
is the force determined to the equation calculating Fd in 
paragraph 6.5.2.1. of this annex at reference speed point j, N. 
Alternatively, at the request of the manufacturer, cd may be set to zero during 
the coastdown and for calculating fjDyno.  
6.5.2.4. 
Measurement conditions 
The vehicle shall be in the condition described in paragraph 4.3.1.3.2. of this 
annex. 
6.5.3. 
Measurement result of the flat belt method 
The result of the flat belt dynamometer fjDyno shall be referred to as fj for the 
further calculations in paragraph 6.7. of this annex. 
6.6. 
Chassis dynamometer applied for the wind tunnel method 
6.6.1. 
Criteria 
In addition to the descriptions in paragraphs 1. and 2. of Annex B5, the criteria 
described in paragraphs 6.6.1.1. to 6.6.1.6. shall apply. 
6.6.1.1. 
Description of a chassis dynamometer  
The front and rear axles shall be equipped with a single roller with a diameter 
of not less than 1.2 metres.  
6.6.1.2. 
Vehicle restraint system 
The dynamometer shall be equipped with a centring device aligning the 
vehicle. The restraint system shall maintain the centred drive wheel position 



--- PAGE 218 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 218 of 762 
 
within the following recommended limits throughout the coastdown runs of the 
road load determination:  
6.6.1.2.1. 
Vehicle position 
The vehicle to be tested shall be installed on the chassis dynamometer roller as 
defined in paragraph 7.3.3. of this annex. 
6.6.1.2.2. 
Vertical force 
The restraint system shall fulfil the requirements of paragraph 6.5.1.2.3. of this 
annex. 
6.6.1.3. 
Accuracy of measured forces 
The accuracy of measured forces shall be as described in paragraph 6.5.1.3. of 
this annex apart from the force in the x-direction that shall be measured with 
an accuracy as described in paragraph 2.4.1. of Annex B5. 
6.6.1.4. 
Dynamometer speed control 
The roller speeds shall be controlled with an accuracy of ±0.2 km/h. 
6.6.1.5. 
Roller surface 
The roller surface shall be clean, dry and free from foreign material that might 
cause tyre slippage. 
6.6.1.6. 
Cooling 
The cooling fan shall be as described in paragraph 6.5.1.6. of this annex. 
6.6.2. 
Dynamometer measurement 
The measurement shall be performed as described in paragraph 6.5.2. of this 
annex. 
6.6.3. 
Correcting measured chassis dynamometer forces to those on a flat surface  
The measured forces on the chassis dynamometer shall be corrected to a 
reference equivalent to the road (flat surface) and the result shall be referred to 
as fj. 
𝑓𝑗= 𝑓𝑗𝐷𝑦𝑛𝑜× 𝑐1 × √
1
𝑅𝑊ℎ𝑒𝑒𝑙
𝑅𝐷𝑦𝑛𝑜× 𝑐2 + 1
+ 𝑓𝑗𝐷𝑦𝑛𝑜× (1 −𝑐1) 
 
 
 where: 



--- PAGE 219 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 219 of 762 
 
c1 
is the tyre rolling resistance fraction of fjDyno; 
c2 
is a chassis dynamometer-specific radius correction factor; 
fjDyno 
is the force calculated in paragraph 6.5.2.3.3. of this annex for each 
reference speed j, N; 
RWheel is one-half of the nominal design tyre diameter, m;  
RDyno is the radius of the chassis dynamometer roller, m. 
 
The manufacturer and the Test Agency shall agree on the factors c1 and c2 to 
be used, based on correlation test evidence provided by the manufacturer for 
the range of tyre characteristics intended to be tested on the chassis 
dynamometer. 
As an alternative the following conservative equation may be used: 
𝑓𝑗= 𝑓𝑗𝐷𝑦𝑛𝑜× √
1
𝑅𝑊ℎ𝑒𝑒𝑙
𝑅𝐷𝑦𝑛𝑜× 0.2 + 1
 
C2 shall be 0.2 except that 2.0 shall be used if the road load delta method (see 
paragraph 6.8. of this annex) is used and the road load delta calculated 
according to paragraph 6.8.1. of this annex is negative. 
6.7. 
Calculations 
6.7.1. 
Correction of the flat belt and chassis dynamometer results 
The measured forces determined in paragraphs 6.5. and 6.6. of this annex shall 
be corrected to reference conditions using the following equation: 
𝐹𝐷𝑗= (𝑓𝑗(1 −𝐾1)) × (1 + 𝐾0(𝑇−293)) 
 
 
where: 
𝐹𝐷𝑗 is the corrected resistance measured at the flat belt or chassis 
dynamometer at reference speed j, N; 
𝑓𝑗 
is the measured force at reference speed j, N; 
𝐾0 
is the correction factor for rolling resistance as defined in 
paragraph 4.5.2. of this annex, K-1; 
𝐾1 
is the test mass correction as defined in paragraph 4.5.4. of this annex, N; 
T 
is the arithmetic average temperature in the test cell during the 
measurement, K. 



--- PAGE 220 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 220 of 762 
 
6.7.2. 
Calculation of the aerodynamic force 
The calculation in paragraph 6.7.2.1. shall be applied considering the results of 
both wind speeds. However, if the difference of the product of the drag 
coefficient and frontal area (𝐶𝐷× 𝐴𝑓 ) measured at the wind speeds vlow and 
vhigh is less than 0.015 m², the calculation in paragraph 6.7.2.2. may be applied 
at the request of the manufacturer. 
6.7.2.1. 
The aerodynamic force of each wind speed 𝐹0𝑤𝑖𝑛𝑑, 𝐹𝑙𝑜𝑤, and 𝐹ℎ𝑖𝑔ℎ shall be 
calculated using the equation below.  
𝐹𝐴𝑤= (𝐶𝐷× 𝐴𝑓 )𝑤× 𝜌0
2 × 𝑣𝑤
2
3.62 
 
where: 
(𝐶𝐷× 𝐴𝑓 )𝑗 is the product of the drag coefficient and frontal area measured 
in the wind tunnel at a certain reference speed point j, if 
applicable, m²; 
𝜌0 
is the dry air density defined in paragraph 3.2.10. of this 
Regulation, kg/m³; 
𝐹𝑤 
is the aerodynamic force calculated at wind speed w, N; 
vw 
is the applicable wind speed, km/h. 
 
 
𝑤 
is the reference to the applicable wind speed "0wind", "low" and 
"high"; 
𝐹0𝑤𝑖𝑛𝑑 
is the aerodynamic force at 0 km/h, N; 
𝐹𝑙𝑜𝑤 
is the aerodynamic force at vlow, N; 
𝐹ℎ𝑖𝑔ℎ 
is the aerodynamic force at vhigh, N. 
 
The aerodynamic force coefficients 𝑓1𝑎 and 𝑓2𝑎 shall be calculated with a least 
square regression analysis using 𝐹0𝑤𝑖𝑛𝑑, 𝐹𝑙𝑜𝑤, and 𝐹ℎ𝑖𝑔ℎ and the equation 
below: 
𝐹= 𝑓1𝑎× 𝑣+ 𝑓2𝑎× 𝑣2 
 
The final result for the aerodynamic force FAj shall be calculated with the 
equation below at each reference speed point vj. If the vehicle is equipped with 
velocity-dependent movable aerodynamic body parts, the corresponding 
aerodynamic force shall be applied for the reference speed points concerned. 
𝐹𝐴𝑗= 𝑓1𝑎× 𝑣𝑗+ 𝑓2𝑎× 𝑣𝑗
2 



--- PAGE 221 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 221 of 762 
 
 
6.7.2.2. 
The aerodynamic force shall be calculated using the equation below, where the 
final (𝐶𝐷× 𝐴𝑓 ) of that wind speed shall be used, that is also used for 
determination of optional equipment within the interpolation method. If the 
vehicle is equipped with velocity-dependent movable aerodynamic body parts, 
the corresponding (CD × Af) values shall be applied for the reference speed 
points concerned. 
𝐹𝐴𝑗= (𝐶𝐷× 𝐴𝑓 )𝑗× 𝜌0
2 ×
𝑣𝑗
2
3.62 
 
where: 
𝐹𝐴𝑗 
is the aerodynamic force calculated at reference speed j, N; 
(𝐶𝐷× 𝐴𝑓 )𝑗 is the product of the drag coefficient and frontal area measured 
in the wind tunnel at a certain reference speed point j, if 
applicable, m²; 
𝜌0 
is the dry air density defined in paragraph 3.2.10. of this 
Regulation, kg/m³; 
vj 
is the reference speed j, km/h. 
6.7.3. 
Calculation of road load values 
The total road load as a sum of the results of paragraphs 6.7.1 and 6.7.2. of this 
annex shall be calculated using the following equation: 
𝐹𝑗
∗= 𝐹𝐷𝑗+ 𝐹𝐴𝑗 
for all applicable reference speed points j, N. 
For all calculated 𝐹𝑗
∗, the coefficients f0, f1 and f2 in the road load equation shall 
be calculated with a least squares regression analysis and shall be used as the 
target coefficients in paragraph 8.1.1. of this annex. 
In the case that the vehicle tested according to the wind tunnel method is 
representative of a road load matrix family vehicle, the coefficient f1 shall be 
set to zero and the coefficients f0 and f2 shall be recalculated with a least squares 
regression analysis. 
6.8. 
Road load delta method 
For the purpose of including options when using the interpolation method 
which are not incorporated in the road load interpolation (i.e. aerodynamics, 
rolling resistance and mass), a delta in vehicle friction may be measured by the 
road load delta method (e.g. friction difference between brake systems). The 
following steps shall be performed: 



--- PAGE 222 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 222 of 762 
 
 
(a) 
The friction of reference vehicle R shall be measured; 
(b) 
The friction of the vehicle with the option (vehicle N) causing the 
difference in friction shall be measured; 
(c) 
The difference shall be calculated according to paragraph 6.8.1. of this 
annex. 
 
These measurements shall be performed on a flat belt according to 
paragraph 6.5. of this annex or on a chassis dynamometer according to 
paragraph 6.6. of this annex, and the correction of the results (excluding 
aerodynamic force) calculated according to paragraph 6.7.1. of this 
annex. 
The application of this method is permitted only if the following criterion 
is fulfilled: 
|1
𝑛∑
(𝐹𝐷𝑗,𝑅−𝐹𝐷𝑗,𝑁)
𝑛
𝑗=1
| ≤25 𝑁 
 
where: 
FDj,R is the corrected resistance of vehicle R measured on the flat belt or 
chassis dynamometer at reference speed j calculated according to 
paragraph 6.7.1. of this annex, N; 
FDj,N is the corrected resistance of vehicle N measured on the flat belt or 
chassis dynamometer at reference speed j calculated according to 
paragraph 6.7.1. of this annex, N; 
n 
is the total number of speed points. 
 
This alternative road load determination method may only be applied if 
vehicles R and N have identical aerodynamic resistance and if the measured 
delta appropriately covers the entire influence on the vehicle's energy 
consumption. This method shall not be applied if the overall accuracy of the 
absolute road load of vehicle N is compromised in any way. 
6.8.1. 
Determination of delta flat belt or chassis dynamometer coefficients 
The delta road load shall be calculated using the following equation: 
𝐹𝐷𝑗,𝐷𝑒𝑙𝑡𝑎= 𝐹𝐷𝑗,𝑁−𝐹𝐷𝑗,𝑅 
 
 
where: 
𝐹𝐷𝑗,𝐷𝑒𝑙𝑡𝑎 is the delta road load at reference speed j, N; 
𝐹𝐷𝑗,𝑁 
is the corrected resistance measured on the flat belt or chassis 
dynamometer at reference speed j calculated according to 
paragraph 6.7.1. of this annex for vehicle N, N; 



--- PAGE 223 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 223 of 762 
 
𝐹𝐷𝑗,𝑅 
is the corrected resistance of the reference vehicle measured on the 
flat belt or chassis dynamometer at reference    speed j calculated 
according to paragraph 6.7.1. of this annex for reference   vehicle R, 
N. 
 
For all calculated FDj,Delta, the coefficients f0,Delta, f1,Delta and f2,Delta in the road 
load equation shall be calculated with a least squares regression analysis.  
6.8.2. 
Determination of total road load 
If the interpolation method (see paragraph 3.2.3.2. of Annex B7) is not used, 
the road load delta method for vehicle N shall be calculated according to the 
following equations: 
 
𝑓0,𝑁= 𝑓0,𝑅+ 𝑓0,𝐷𝑒𝑙𝑡𝑎 
𝑓1,𝑁= 𝑓1,𝑅+ 𝑓1,𝐷𝑒𝑙𝑡𝑎 
𝑓2,𝑁= 𝑓2,𝑅+ 𝑓2,𝐷𝑒𝑙𝑡𝑎 
where: 
N refers to the road load coefficients of vehicle N; 
R refers to the road load coefficients of reference vehicle R; 
Delta refers to the delta road load coefficients determined in paragraph 6.8.1. 
of this annex. 
7.0 
Transferring road load to a chassis dynamometer 
7.1. 
Preparation for chassis dynamometer test 
7.1.0. 
Selection of dynamometer operation 
The test shall be carried out in accordance with paragraph 2.4.2.4. of Annex B6  
7.1.1. 
Laboratory conditions 
7.1.1.1. 
Roller(s) 
The chassis dynamometer roller(s) shall be clean, dry and free from foreign 
material that might cause tyre slippage. The dynamometer shall be run in the 
same coupled or uncoupled state as the subsequent Type I test. Chassis 
dynamometer speed shall be measured from the roller coupled to the power 
absorption unit. 
7.1.1.1.1. 
Tyre slippage  
Additional weight may be placed on or in the vehicle to eliminate tyre slippage. 
The manufacturer shall perform the load setting on the chassis dynamometer 
with the additional weight. The additional weight shall be present for both load 



--- PAGE 224 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 224 of 762 
 
setting and the emissions and fuel consumption tests. The use of any additional 
weight shall be recorded. 
7.1.1.2. 
Room temperature 
The laboratory atmospheric temperature shall be at a set point of 23 °C and 
shall not deviate by more than ±5 °C during the test unless otherwise required 
by any subsequent test. 
7.2. 
Preparation of chassis dynamometer 
7.2.1. 
Inertia mass setting 
The equivalent inertia mass of the chassis dynamometer shall be set according 
to paragraph 2.5.3. of this annex. If the chassis dynamometer is not capable to 
meet the inertia setting exactly, the next higher inertia setting shall be applied 
with a maximum increase of 10 kg. 
7.2.2. 
Chassis dynamometer warm-up 
The chassis dynamometer shall be warmed up in accordance with the 
dynamometer manufacturer’s recommendations, or as appropriate, so that the 
frictional losses of the dynamometer may be stabilized. 
7.3. 
Vehicle preparation 
7.3.1. 
Tyre pressure adjustment 
The tyre pressure at the soak temperature of a Type I test shall be set to no more 
than 50 per cent above the lower limit of the tyre pressure range for the selected 
tyre, as specified by the vehicle manufacturer (see paragraph 4.2.2.3. of this 
annex), and shall be recorded. 
7.3.2. 
If the determination of dynamometer settings cannot meet the criteria described 
in paragraph 8.1.3. of this annex due to non-reproducible forces, the vehicle 
shall be equipped with a vehicle coastdown mode. The coastdown mode shall 
be approved by the Test Agency and its use shall be included in all relevant 
test reports. 
If a vehicle is equipped with a vehicle coastdown mode, it shall be engaged 
both during road load determination and on the chassis dynamometer. 
7.3.3. 
Vehicle placement on the dynamometer 
The tested vehicle shall be placed on the chassis dynamometer in a straight 
ahead position and restrained in a safe manner.  
7.3.3.1. 
In the case that a single roller chassis dynamometer is used, the vehicle shall 
be positioned and stay positioned throughout the procedure according to the 
requirements in 7.3.3.1.1. to 7.3.3.1.3. 



--- PAGE 225 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 225 of 762 
 
7.3.3.1.1. 
Rotational alignment (rotation around z-axis) 
The vehicle shall be positioned in line with the x-axis in order to minimise 
rotation around the z-axis  
7.3.3.1.2. 
Lateral position (y-axis)  
The vehicle shall remain aligned in the y-direction and lateral movement shall 
be minimised. 
7.3.3.1.3. 
Front and rear position (x-axis) 
For all rotating wheels the centre of the tyre’s contact patch on the roller shall 
be within ±25 mm or ±2 per cent of the roller diameter, whichever is smaller, 
from the top of the roller.  
7.3.3.1.4. 
The tested vehicle shall be restrained with a system compliant with 
paragraph 2.3.2. of Annex B5. 
If the torque meter method is used, the tyre pressure shall be adjusted such that 
the dynamic radius is within 0.5 per cent of the dynamic radius rj calculated 
using the equations in paragraph 4.4.3.1. of this annex at the 80 km/h reference 
speed point. The dynamic radius on the chassis dynamometer shall be 
calculated according to the procedure described in paragraph 4.4.3.1. of this 
annex. 
If this adjustment is outside the range defined in paragraph 7.3.1. of this annex, 
the torque meter method shall not apply. 
7.3.4. 
Vehicle warm-up 
7.3.4.1. 
The vehicle shall be warmed up with the applicable WLTC. In the case that the 
vehicle was warmed up at 90 per cent of the maximum speed of the next higher 
phase during the procedure defined in paragraph 4.2.4.1.2. of this annex, this 
higher phase shall be added to the applicable WLTC. 
 
Table A4/7 
Vehicle warm-up 
 
Vehicle class 
Applicable WLTC 
Adopt next higher 
phase 
Warm-up cycle 
Class 1 
Low1+ Medium1 
NA 
Low1+ Medium1 
Class 2 
Low2 + Medium2 + High2  
NA 
Low2 + Medium2 + High2  
Class 3 
Low3 + Medium3 + High3  
NA 
Low3 + Medium3 + High3  
 



--- PAGE 226 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 226 of 762 
 
7.3.4.2. 
If the vehicle is already warmed up, the WLTC phase applied in 
paragraph 7.3.4.1. of this annex, with the highest speed, shall be driven. 
7.3.4.3. 
Alternative warm-up procedure 
7.3.4.3.1. 
At the request of the vehicle manufacturer and with approval of the Test 
Agency, an alternative warm-up procedure may be used. The approved 
alternative warm-up procedure may be used for vehicles within the same road 
load family and shall satisfy the requirements outlined in paragraphs 7.3.4.3.2. 
to 7.3.4.3.5. inclusive of this annex. 
7.3.4.3.2. 
At least one vehicle representing the road load family shall be selected. 
7.3.4.3.3. 
The cycle energy demand calculated according to paragraph 5. of Annex B7 
with corrected road load coefficients f0a, f1a and f2a, for the alternative warm-
up procedure shall be equal to or higher than the cycle energy demand 
calculated with the target road load coefficients f0, f1, and f2, for each applicable 
phase. 
The corrected road load coefficients f0a, f1a and f2a, shall be calculated 
according to the following equations: 
𝑓0𝑎= 𝑓0 + 𝐴𝑑𝑎𝑙𝑡−𝐴𝑑𝑊𝐿𝑇𝐶 
𝑓1𝑎= 𝑓1 + 𝐵𝑑_𝑎𝑙𝑡−𝐵𝑑_𝑊𝐿𝑇𝐶 
𝑓2𝑎= 𝑓2 + 𝐶𝑑_𝑎𝑙𝑡−𝐶𝑑_𝑊𝐿𝑇𝐶 
 
 
where: 
Ad_alt, Bd_alt and Cd_alt are the chassis dynamometer setting coefficients after 
the alternative warm-up procedure; 
Ad_WLTC, Bd_WLTC and Cd_WLTC 
are the chassis dynamometer setting 
coefficients after a WLTC warm-up procedure described in paragraph 7.3.4.1. of 
this annex and a valid chassis dynamometer load setting according to paragraph 
8. of this annex. 
7.3.4.3.4. 
The corrected road load coefficients f0a, f1a and f2a, shall be used only for the 
purpose of paragraph 7.3.4.3.3. of this annex. For other purposes, the target 
road load coefficients f0, f1 and f2, shall be used as the target road load 
coefficients. 
7.3.4.3.5. 
Details of the procedure and of its equivalency shall be provided to the Test 
Agency. 
8.0 
Chassis dynamometer load setting 
8.1. 
Chassis dynamometer load setting using the coastdown method 



--- PAGE 227 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 227 of 762 
 
This method is applicable when the road load coefficients f0, f1 and f2 have 
been determined. 
In the case of a road load matrix family, this method shall be applied when the 
road load of the representative vehicle is determined using the coastdown 
method described in paragraph 4.3. of this annex. The target road load values 
are the values calculated using the method described in paragraph 5.1. of this 
annex. 
8.1.1. 
Initial load setting 
For a chassis dynamometer with coefficient control, the chassis dynamometer 
power absorption unit shall be adjusted with the arbitrary initial coefficients, 
𝐴𝑑, 𝐵𝑑 and 𝐶𝑑, of the following equation: 
𝐹𝑑= 𝐴𝑑+ 𝐵𝑑𝑣+ 𝐶𝑑𝑣2 
 
where:  
𝐹𝑑 
is the chassis dynamometer setting load, N; 
𝑣 
is the speed of the chassis dynamometer roller, km/h. 
The following are recommended coefficients to be used for the initial load 
setting: 
(a) 𝐴𝑑= 0.5 × 𝐴𝑡, 𝐵𝑑= 0.2 × 𝐵𝑡, 𝐶𝑑= 𝐶𝑡  
 
for single-axis chassis dynamometers, or 
𝐴𝑑= 0.1 × 𝐴𝑡, 𝐵𝑑= 0.2 × 𝐵𝑡, 𝐶𝑑= 𝐶𝑡  
for dual-axis chassis dynamometers, where 𝐴𝑡, 𝐵𝑡 and 𝐶𝑡 are the target 
road load coefficients; 
(b) Empirical values, such as those used for the setting for a similar type of 
vehicle. 
For a chassis dynamometer of polygonal control, adequate load values at each 
reference speed shall be set to the chassis dynamometer power absorption unit. 
8.1.2 
Coastdown 
The coastdown test on the chassis dynamometer shall be performed with the 
procedure given in paragraphs 8.1.3.4.1. or 8.1.3.4.2. of this annex and shall 
start no later than 120 seconds after completion of the warm-up procedure. 
Consecutive coastdown runs shall be started immediately. At the request of the 
manufacturer and with approval of the Test Agency, the time between the 
warm-up procedure and coastdowns using the iterative method may be 
extended to ensure a proper vehicle setting for the coastdown. The 
manufacturer shall provide the Test Agency with evidence for requiring 
additional time and evidence that the chassis dynamometer load setting 



--- PAGE 228 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 228 of 762 
 
parameters (e.g. coolant and/or oil temperature, force on a dynamometer) are 
not affected. 
8.1.3 
Verification 
8.1.3.1. 
The target road load value shall be calculated using the target road load 
coefficient, 𝐴𝑡, 𝐵𝑡 and 𝐶𝑡, for each reference speed, 𝑣𝑗: 
𝐹𝑡𝑗= 𝐴𝑡+ 𝐵𝑡𝑣𝑗+ 𝐶𝑡𝑣𝑗
2 
 
where: 
At, Bt and Ct are the target road load parameters; 
𝐹𝑡𝑗 
is the target road load at reference speed 𝑣𝑗, N; 
𝑣𝑗 
is the jth reference speed, km/h. 
8.1.3.2. 
The measured road load shall be calculated using the following equation: 
𝐹𝑚𝑗= 
1
3.6 × (𝑇𝑀+ 𝑚𝑟) × 
2 × ∆𝑣
∆𝑡𝑗  
 
where: 
Δv 
is 5 km/h; 
Fmj 
is the measured road load for each reference speed vj, N; 
TM is the test mass of the vehicle, kg;  
mr 
is the equivalent effective mass of rotating components according to 
paragraph 2.5.1. of this annex, kg; 
∆tj 
is the coastdown time corresponding to speed vj, s. 
8.1.3.3. 
The coefficients As, Bs and Cs in the road load equation of the simulated road 
load on the chassis dynamometer shall be calculated using a least squares 
regression analysis:  
𝐹𝑠= 𝐴𝑠+ (𝐵𝑠× 𝑣) + (𝐶𝑠× 𝑣2) 
The simulated road load for each reference speed vj shall be determined using 
the following equation, using the calculated As, Bs and Cs: 
𝐹𝑠𝑗= 𝐴𝑠+ (𝐵𝑠× 𝑣𝑗) + (𝐶𝑠× 𝑣𝑗
2) 
8.1.3.4. 
For dynamometer load setting, two different methods may be used. If the 
vehicle is accelerated by the dynamometer, the methods described in 
paragraph 8.1.3.4.1. of this annex shall be used. If the vehicle is accelerated 
under its own power, the methods in paragraphs 8.1.3.4.1. or 8.1.3.4.2. of this 
annex shall be used and the minimum acceleration multiplied by speed shall be 



--- PAGE 229 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 229 of 762 
 
6 m²/sec³. Vehicles which are unable to achieve 6 m2/s3 shall be driven with 
the acceleration control fully applied. 
8.1.3.4.1 
 Fixed run method 
8.1.3.4.1.1 The dynamometer software shall perform a total of four coastdowns. From the 
first coastdown, the dynamometer setting coefficients for the second run shall 
be calculated according to paragraph 8.1.4. of this annex. Following the first 
coastdown, the software shall perform three additional coastdowns with either 
the fixed dynamometer setting coefficients determined after the first coastdown 
or the adjusted dynamometer setting coefficients according to paragraph 8.1.4. 
of this annex. 
8.1.3.4.1.2 The final dynamometer setting coefficients A, B and C shall be calculated using 
the following equations: 
𝐴= 𝐴𝑡−
∑
(𝐴𝑠𝑛−𝐴𝑑𝑛)
4
𝑛=2
3
 
𝐵= 𝐵𝑡−
∑
(𝐵𝑠𝑛−𝐵𝑑𝑛)
4
𝑛=2
3
 
𝐶= 𝐶𝑡−
∑
(𝐶𝑠𝑛−𝐶𝑑𝑛)
4
𝑛=2
3
 
 
where: 
 
At, Bt and Ct 
are the target road load parameters; 
𝐴𝑠𝑛, 𝐵𝑠𝑛and 𝐶𝑠𝑛 are the simulated road load coefficients of the nth run; 
𝐴𝑑𝑛, 𝐵𝑑𝑛and 𝐶𝑑𝑛 are the dynamometer setting coefficients of the nth run; 
n 
is the index number of coastdowns including the first 
stabilisation run. 
8.1.3.4.2 
Iterative method 
The calculated forces in the specified speed ranges shall either be within ±10 N 
after a least squares regression of the forces for two consecutive coastdowns 
when compared with the target values, or additional coastdowns shall be 
performed after adjusting the chassis dynamometer load setting according to 
paragraph 8.1.4. of this annex until the tolerance is satisfied. 
8.1.4 
Adjustment 
The chassis dynamometer setting load shall be adjusted according to the 
following equations: 
𝐹𝑑𝑗
∗= 𝐹𝑑𝑗−𝐹𝑗= 𝐹𝑑𝑗−𝐹𝑠𝑗+ 𝐹𝑡𝑗 



--- PAGE 230 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 230 of 762 
 
= (𝐴𝑑+ 𝐵𝑑𝑣𝑗+ 𝐶𝑑𝑣𝑗
2) −(𝐴𝑠+ 𝐵𝑠𝑣𝑗+ 𝐶𝑠𝑣𝑗
2) + (𝐴𝑡+ 𝐵𝑡𝑣𝑗+ 𝐶𝑡𝑣𝑗
2) 
= (𝐴𝑑+ 𝐴𝑡−𝐴𝑠) + (𝐵𝑑+ 𝐵𝑡−𝐵𝑠)𝑣𝑗+ (𝐶𝑑+ 𝐶𝑡−𝐶𝑠)𝑣𝑗
2 
Therefore: 
𝐴𝑑
∗= 𝐴𝑑+ 𝐴𝑡−𝐴𝑠 
𝐵𝑑
∗= 𝐵𝑑+ 𝐵𝑡−𝐵𝑠 
𝐶𝑑
∗= 𝐶𝑑+ 𝐶𝑡−𝐶𝑠 
 
where:  
Fdj 
is the initial chassis dynamometer setting load, N; 
𝐹𝑑𝑗
∗ is the adjusted chassis dynamometer setting load, N; 
Fj 
is the adjustment road load equal to (𝐹𝑠𝑗−𝐹𝑡𝑗), N; 
Fsj 
is the simulated road load at reference speed vj, N; 
Ftj 
is the target road load at reference speed vj, N; 
𝐴𝑑
∗, 𝐵𝑑
∗ and 𝐶𝑑
∗  are the new chassis dynamometer setting coefficients. 
8.1.5. 
At, Bt and Ct shall be used as the final values of f0, f1 and f2, and shall be used 
for the following purposes: 
 
(a) Determination of downscaling, paragraph 8. of Annex B1; 
(b) Determination of gearshift points, Annex B2; 
(c) Interpolation of CO2 and fuel consumption, paragraph 3.2.3. of Annex B7; 
(d) Calculation of results of electric and hybrid-electric vehicles, paragraph 4. 
of Annex B8; 
8.2. 
Chassis dynamometer load setting using the torque meter method 
This method is applicable when the running resistance is determined using the 
torque meter method described in paragraph 4.4. of this annex. 
In the case of a road load matrix family, this method shall be applied when the 
running resistance of the representative vehicle is determined using the torque 
meter method as specified in paragraph 4.4. of this annex. The target running 
resistance values are the values calculated using the method specified in 
paragraph 5.1. of this annex. 
8.2.1. 
Initial load setting 



--- PAGE 231 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 231 of 762 
 
For a chassis dynamometer of coefficient control, the chassis dynamometer 
power absorption unit shall be adjusted with the arbitrary initial coefficients, 
𝐴𝑑, 𝐵𝑑 and 𝐶𝑑, of the following equation: 
𝐹𝑑= 𝐴𝑑+ 𝐵𝑑𝑣+ 𝐶𝑑𝑣2  
 
where: 
𝐹𝑑 
is the chassis dynamometer setting load, N; 
𝑣 
is the speed of the chassis dynamometer roller, km/h. 
 
The following coefficients are recommended for the initial load setting: 
 
(a) 
𝐴𝑑= 0.5 × 𝑎𝑡
𝑟′ , 𝐵𝑑= 0.2 × 𝑏𝑡
𝑟′ , 𝐶𝑑= 𝑐𝑡
𝑟′ 
For single-axis chassis dynamometers, or 
𝐴𝑑= 0.1 ×
𝑎𝑡
𝑟′ ,  𝐵𝑑= 0.2 ×
𝑏𝑡
𝑟′ , 𝐶𝑑=
𝑐𝑡
𝑟′  
 
For dual-axis chassis dynamometers, where: 
𝑎𝑡, 𝑏𝑡 and 𝑐𝑡 are the target running resistance coefficients; and 
𝑟′ is the dynamic radius of the tyre on the chassis dynamometer obtained 
at 80 km/h, m, or 
 
(b) Empirical values, such as those used for the setting for a similar type of 
vehicle. 
 
For a chassis dynamometer of polygonal control, adequate load values at each 
reference speed shall be set for the chassis dynamometer power absorption unit. 
8.2.2. 
Wheel torque measurement 
The torque measurement test on the chassis dynamometer shall be performed 
with the procedure defined in paragraph 4.4.2. of this annex. The torque 
meter(s) shall be identical to the one(s) used in the preceding road test. 
8.2.3. 
 Verification 
8.2.3.1. 
The target running resistance (torque) curve shall be determined using the 
equation in paragraph 4.5.5.2.1. of this annex and may be written as follows:  
𝐶𝑡
∗= 𝑎𝑡+ 𝑏𝑡× 𝑣𝑗+ 𝑐𝑡× 𝑣𝑗
2 
8.2.3.2. 
The simulated running resistance (torque) curve on the chassis dynamometer 
shall be calculated according to the method described and the measurement 
precision specified in paragraph 4.4.3.2. of this annex, and the running 
resistance (torque) curve determination as described in paragraph 4.4.4. of this 
annex with applicable corrections according to paragraph 4.5. of this annex, all 



--- PAGE 232 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 232 of 762 
 
with the exception of measuring in opposite directions, resulting in a simulated 
running resistance curve: 
𝐶𝑠
∗= 𝐶0𝑠+ 𝐶1𝑠× 𝑣𝑗+ 𝐶2𝑠× 𝑣𝑗
2 
The simulated running resistance (torque) shall be within a tolerance of 
±10 N×r’ from the target running resistance at every speed reference point 
where r’ is the dynamic radius of the tyre in metres on the chassis dynamometer 
obtained at 80 km/h. 
If the tolerance at any reference speed does not satisfy the criterion of the 
method described in 
this 
paragraph, the procedure specified in 
paragraph 8.2.3.3. of this annex shall be used to adjust the chassis 
dynamometer load setting. 
8.2.3.3. 
Adjustment 
The chassis dynamometer load setting shall be adjusted using the following 
equation: 
 
 
𝐹𝑑𝑗
∗= 𝐹𝑑𝑗−𝐹𝑒𝑗
𝑟′ = 𝐹𝑑𝑗−𝐹𝑠𝑗
𝑟′ + 𝐹𝑡𝑗
𝑟′  
= (𝐴𝑑+ 𝐵𝑑𝑣𝑗+ 𝐶𝑑𝑣𝑗
2) −
(𝑎𝑠+ 𝑏𝑠𝑣𝑗+ 𝑐𝑠𝑣𝑗
2)
𝑟′
+
(𝑎𝑡+ 𝑏𝑡𝑣𝑗+ 𝑐𝑡𝑣𝑗
2)
𝑟′
 
= {𝐴𝑑+
(𝑎𝑡−𝑎𝑠)
𝑟′
} + {𝐵𝑑+
(𝑏𝑡−𝑏𝑠)
𝑟′
} 𝑣𝑗+ {𝐶𝑑+
(𝑐𝑡−𝑐𝑠)
𝑟′
} 𝑣𝑗
2 
 therefore: 
 
𝐴𝑑
∗= 𝐴𝑑+ 𝑎𝑡−𝑎𝑠
𝑟′
 
𝐵𝑑
∗= 𝐵𝑑+ 𝑏𝑡−𝑏𝑠
𝑟′
 
𝐶𝑑
∗= 𝐶𝑑+ 𝑐𝑡−𝑐𝑠
𝑟′
 
where: 
𝐹𝑑𝑗
∗ is the new chassis dynamometer setting load, N; 
Fej 
is the adjustment road load equal to (Fsj-Ftj), Nm; 
𝐹𝑠𝑗 
is the simulated road load at reference speed vj, Nm; 
𝐹𝑡𝑗 
is the target road load at reference speed vj, Nm; 



--- PAGE 233 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 233 of 762 
 
𝐴𝑑
∗, 𝐵𝑑
∗ and 𝐶𝑑
∗ 
are the new chassis dynamometer setting coefficients; 
r’ 
is the dynamic radius of the tyre on the chassis dynamometer 
obtained at 80 km/h, m. 
Paragraphs 8.2.2. and 8.2.3. of this annex shall be repeated until the tolerance 
in paragraph 8.2.3.2. of this annex is met. 
8.2.3.4. 
The mass of the driven axle(s), tyre specifications and chassis dynamometer 
load setting shall be recorded when the requirement of paragraph 8.2.3.2. of 
this annex is fulfilled. 
8.2.4. 
Transforming running resistance coefficients to road load coefficients f0, f1, f2 
8.2.4.1. 
If the vehicle does not coast down in a repeatable manner and a vehicle 
coastdown mode according to paragraph 4.2.1.8.5. of this annex is not feasible, 
the coefficients f0, f1 and f2 in the road load equation shall be calculated using 
the equations in paragraph 8.2.4.1.1. of this annex. In any other case, the 
procedure described in paragraphs 8.2.4.2. to 8.2.4.4. inclusive of this annex 
shall be performed. 
8.2.4.1.1. 
𝑓0 = 𝑐0
𝑟× 1.02 
𝑓1 = 𝑐1
𝑟× 1.02 
𝑓2 = 𝑐2
𝑟× 1.02 
where: 
c0, c1, c2 are 
the 
running 
resistance 
coefficients 
determined 
in 
paragraph 4.4.4. of this annex, Nm, Nm/(km/h), Nm/(km/h)²; 
r 
is the dynamic tyre radius of the vehicle with which the running 
resistance was determined, m; 
1.02 
is an approximate coefficient compensating for drivetrain losses. 
8.2.4.1.2. 
The determined f0, f1, f2 values shall not be used for a chassis dynamometer 
setting or any emission or range testing. They shall be used only in the 
following cases: 
 
(a) Determination of downscaling, paragraph 8. of Annex B1; 
(b) Determination of gearshift points, Annex B2; 
(c) Interpolation of CO2 and fuel consumption, paragraph 3.2.3 of Annex B7; 
(d) Calculation of results of electric and hybrid-electric vehicles, paragraph 4. 
of Annex B8. 



--- PAGE 234 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 234 of 762 
 
  
 
 
 
 
8.2.4.2. 
Once the chassis dynamometer has been set within the specified tolerances, a 
vehicle coastdown procedure shall be performed on the chassis dynamometer 
as outlined in paragraph 4.3.1.3. of this annex. The coastdown times shall be 
recorded. 
8.2.4.3. 
The road load Fj at reference speed vj, N, shall be determined using the 
following equation: 
𝐹𝑗 = 1
3.6 × (𝑇𝑀+ 𝑚𝑟) × 2 × ∆𝑣
∆𝑡𝑗
 
 
where: 
Fj 
is the road load at reference speed vj, N; 
TM 
is the test mass of the vehicle, kg; 
mr 
is the equivalent effective mass of rotating components according to 
paragraph 2.5.1. of this annex, kg; 
∆v      = 5 km/h 
∆tj 
is the coastdown time corresponding to speed vj, s. 
8.2.4.4. 
The coefficients f0, f1 and f2 in the road load equation shall be calculated with 
a least squares regression analysis over the reference speed range. 



--- PAGE 235 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 235 of 762 
 
 
 
ANNEX B5 
TEST EQUIPMENT AND CALIBRATIONS 
1.0 
Test bench specifications and settings 
1.1. 
Cooling fan specifications 
1.1.1. 
A variable speed current of air shall be blown towards the vehicle. The set point 
of the linear velocity of the air at the blower outlet shall be equal to the 
corresponding roller speed above roller speeds of 5 km/h. The linear velocity of 
the air at the blower outlet shall be within ±5 km/h or ±10 per cent of the 
corresponding roller speed, whichever is greater. 
1.1.2. 
The above-mentioned air velocity shall be determined as an averaged value of a 
number of measuring points that: 
 
(a) 
For fans with rectangular outlets, are located at the centre of each rectangle 
dividing the whole of the fan outlet into 9 areas (dividing both horizontal 
and vertical sides of the fan outlet into 3 equal parts). The centre area shall 
not be measured (as shown in Figure A5/1); 
 
Figure A5/1 
Fan with rectangular outlet 
 
 
 
 
(b) 
For fans with circular outlets, the outlet shall be divided into 8 equal 
sectors by vertical, horizontal and 45° lines. The measurement points shall 
lie on the radial centre line of each sector (22.5°) at two-thirds of the outlet 
radius (as shown in Figure A5/2). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 236 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 236 of 762 
 
 
Figure A5/2 
Fan with circular outlet 
 
 
 
 
These measurements shall be made with no vehicle or other obstruction in 
front of the fan. The device used to measure the linear velocity of the air shall 
be located between 0 and 20 cm from the air outlet. 
1.1.3. 
 The outlet of the fan shall have the following characteristics: 
(a) 
An area of at least 0.3 m2; and 
(b) 
 A width/diameter of at least 0.8 metre. 
1.1.4. 
 The position of the fan shall be as follows: 
(a) 
Height of the lower edge above ground: approximately 20 cm; 
(b) 
Distance from the front of the vehicle: approximately 30 cm; 
(c) 
Approximately on the longitudinal centreline of the vehicle. 
1.1.5. 
At the request of the manufacturer and if considered appropriate by the Test 
Agency, the height, lateral position and distance from the vehicle of the 
cooling fan may be modified. 
If the specified fan configuration is impractical for special vehicle designs, 
such as vehicles with rear-mounted engines or side air intakes, or it does not 
provide adequate cooling to properly represent in-use operation, at the request 
of the manufacturer and if considered appropriate by the Test Agency, the 
height, capacity, longitudinal and lateral position of the cooling fan may be 
modified and additional fans which may have different specifications 
(including constant speed fans) may be used. 
1.1.6. 
In the cases described in paragraph 1.1.5. of this annex, the position and 
capacity of the cooling fan(s) and details of the justification supplied to the 
Test Agency shall be recorded. For any subsequent testing, similar positions 



--- PAGE 237 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 237 of 762 
 
 
 
 
and specifications shall be used in consideration of the justification to avoid 
non-representative cooling characteristics. 
2.0 
Chassis dynamometer 
2.1. 
General requirements 
2.1.1. 
The dynamometer shall be capable of simulating road load with three road 
load coefficients that can be adjusted to shape the load curve. 
2.1.2. 
The chassis dynamometer may have a single or twin-roller configuration. In 
the case that twin-roller chassis dynamometers are used, the rollers shall be 
permanently coupled or the front roller shall drive, directly or indirectly, any 
inertial masses and the power absorption device. 
2.2. 
Specific requirements 
The following specific requirements 
relate to 
the dynamometer 
manufacturer's specifications. 
2.2.1. 
The roller run-out shall be less than 0.25 mm at all measured locations. 
2.2.2. 
The roller diameter shall be within ±1.0 mm of the specified nominal value at 
all measurement locations. 
2.2.3. 
The dynamometer shall have a time measurement system for use in 
determining acceleration rates and for measuring vehicle/dynamometer 
coastdown times. This time measurement system shall not exceed an accuracy 
of ±0.001 per cent after at least 1,000 seconds of operation. This shall be 
verified upon initial installation. 
2.2.4. 
The dynamometer shall have a speed measurement system with an accuracy 
of at least ±0.080 km/h. This shall be verified upon initial installation. 
2.2.5. 
The dynamometer shall have a response time (90 per cent response to a 
tractive effort step change) of less than 100 ms with instantaneous 
accelerations that are at least 3 m/s2. This shall be verified upon initial 
installation and after major maintenance. 
2.2.6. 
The base inertia of the dynamometer shall be stated by the dynamometer 
manufacturer and shall be confirmed to within 0.5 per cent or 7.5 kg 
whichever is the greater for each measured base inertia and ±0.2 per cent 
relative to any arithmetic average value by dynamic derivation from trials at 
constant acceleration, deceleration and force. 
2.2.7. 
Roller speed shall be measured at a frequency of not less than 10 Hz. 
2.3. 
Additional specific requirements for a chassis dynamometer in 4WD 
operation 



--- PAGE 238 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 238 of 762 
 
2.3.1. 
For testing in 4WD operation, the chassis dynamometer shall have a single 
roller configuration. The 4WD control system shall be designed such that the 
following requirements are fulfilled when tested with a vehicle driven over 
the WLTC. 
2.3.1.1. 
Road load simulation shall be applied such that the dynamometer in 4WD 
operation reproduces the same proportioning of forces as would be 
encountered when driving the vehicle on a smooth, dry, level road surface. 
2.3.1.2. 
Upon initial installation and after major maintenance, the requirements of 
paragraph 2.3.1.2.1. of this annex and of either paragraph 2.3.1.2.2. or 
2.3.1.2.3. of this annex shall be satisfied. The speed difference between the 
front and rear rollers shall be assessed by applying a 1 second moving average 
filter to roller speed data acquired at a minimum frequency of 20 Hz. 
2.3.1.2.1. 
The difference in distance covered by the front and rear rollers shall be less 
than 0.2 per cent of the distance driven over the WLTC. The absolute number 
shall be integrated for the calculation of the total difference in distance over 
the WLTC.  
2.3.1.2.2. 
The difference in distance covered by the front and rear rollers shall be less 
than 0.1 m in any 200 ms time period. 
2.3.1.2.3. 
The speed difference of all roller speeds shall be within ±0.16 km/h. 
2.3.2. 
Vehicle restraint system for single roller chassis dynamometers 
2.3.2.1. 
Vertical force 
In addition to the requirement of paragraph 7.3.3.1.3. of Annex B4, the 
restraint system shall be designed so that the vertical force imposed to the 
vehicle is minimised and is the same during the chassis dynamometer setting 
and all tests. This criteria is fulfilled, if either the restraint system is designed 
such that it cannot impose any different vertical force, or if a procedure to 
demonstrate how this requirement can be met is agreed between the Test 
Agency and the manufacturer. 
2.3.2.2. 
Restraint stiffness 
The restraint system shall exhibit sufficient stiffness in order to minimize any 
movements and rotations. Only limited movements along the z-axis and 
rotations over the y-axis are allowed to avoid non-negligible effects towards 
the test results and to fulfil the requirements of paragraph 2.3.2.1. of this 
annex. 
 
 



--- PAGE 239 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 239 of 762 
 
2.4. 
Chassis dynamometer calibration 
2.4.1. 
Force measurement system 
The accuracy of the force transducer shall be at least ±10 N for all measured 
increments. This shall be verified upon initial installation, after major 
maintenance and within 370 days before testing.  
2.4.2. 
Dynamometer parasitic loss calibration 
The dynamometer's parasitic losses shall be measured and updated if any 
measured value differs from the current loss curve by more than 9.0 N. This 
shall be verified upon initial installation, after major maintenance and within 
35 days before testing. 
2.4.3. 
Verification of road load simulation without a vehicle 
The dynamometer performance shall be verified by performing an unloaded 
coastdown test upon initial installation, after major maintenance, and within 
7 days before testing. The arithmetic average coastdown force error shall be 
less than 10 N or 2 per cent, whichever is greater, at each reference speed 
point. 
3.0 
Exhaust gas dilution system 
3.1. 
System specification 
3.1.1. 
Overview 
3.1.1.1. 
A full flow exhaust dilution system shall be used. The total vehicle exhaust 
shall be continuously diluted with ambient air under controlled conditions 
using a constant volume sampler. A critical flow venturi (CFV) or multiple 
critical flow venturis arranged in parallel, a positive displacement pump 
(PDP), a subsonic venturi (SSV), or an ultrasonic flow meter (UFM) may be 
used. The total volume of the mixture of exhaust and dilution air shall be 
measured and a continuously proportional sample of the volume shall be 
collected for analysis. The quantities of exhaust gas compounds shall be 
determined from the sample concentrations, corrected for their respective 
content of the dilution air and the totalised flow over the test period. 
3.1.1.2. 
The exhaust dilution system shall consist of a connecting tube, a mixing 
device and dilution tunnel, dilution air conditioning, a suction device and a 
flow measurement device. Sampling probes shall be fitted in the dilution 
tunnel as specified in paragraphs 4.1., 4.2. and 4.3. of this annex. 
3.1.1.3. 
The mixing device referred to in paragraph 3.1.1.2. of this annex shall be a 
vessel such as that illustrated in Figure A5/3 in which vehicle exhaust gases 
and the dilution air are combined so as to produce a homogeneous mixture at 
the sampling position. 
3.2. 
General requirements 



--- PAGE 240 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 240 of 762 
 
3.2.1. 
The vehicle exhaust gases shall be diluted with a sufficient amount of ambient 
air to prevent any water condensation in the sampling and measuring system 
at all conditions that may occur during a test. 
3.2.2. 
The mixture of air and exhaust gases shall be homogeneous at the point where 
the sampling probes are located (see paragraph 3.3.3. of this annex). The 
sampling probes shall extract representative samples of the diluted exhaust 
gas. 
3.2.3. 
The system shall enable the total volume of the diluted exhaust gases to be 
measured. 
3.2.4. 
The sampling system shall be gas-tight. The design of the variable dilution 
sampling system and the materials used in its construction shall be such that 
the concentration of any compound in the diluted exhaust gases is not affected. 
If any component in the system (heat exchanger, cyclone separator, suction 
device, etc.) changes the concentration of any of the exhaust gas compounds 
and the systematic error cannot be corrected, sampling for that compound 
shall be carried out upstream from that component. 
3.2.5. 
All parts of the dilution system in contact with raw or diluted exhaust gas shall 
be designed to minimise deposition or alteration of the particulate or particles. 
All parts shall be made of electrically conductive materials that do not react 
with exhaust gas components, and shall be electrically grounded to prevent 
electrostatic effects. 
3.2.6. 
If the vehicle being tested is equipped with an exhaust pipe comprising several 
branches, the connecting tubes shall be connected as near as possible to the 
vehicle without adversely affecting their operation. 
3.3. 
Specific requirements 
3.3.1. 
Connection to vehicle exhaust 
3.3.1.1. 
The start of the connecting tube is the exit of the tailpipe. The end of the 
connecting tube is the sample point, or first point of dilution.  
For multiple tailpipe configurations where all the tailpipes are combined, the 
start of the connecting tube shall be taken at the last joint of where all the 
tailpipes are combined. In this case, the tube between the exit of the tailpipe 
and the start of the connecting tube may or may not be insulated or heated. 
3.3.1.2. 
The connecting tube between the vehicle and dilution system shall be 
designed so as to minimize heat loss. 
3.3.1.3. 
The connecting tube shall satisfy the following requirements: 



--- PAGE 241 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 241 of 762 
 
 
(a) 
 Be less than 3.6 metres long, or less than 6.1 metres long if heat-
insulated. Its internal diameter shall not exceed 105 mm; the insulating 
materials shall have a thickness of at least 25 mm and thermal 
conductivity shall not exceed 0.1 W/m-1K-1 at 400 °C. Optionally, the 
tube may be heated to a temperature above the dew point. This may 
be assumed to be achieved if the tube is heated to 70 °C; 
(b) 
Not cause the static pressure at the exhaust outlets on the vehicle 
being tested to differ by more than 0.75 kPa at 50 km/h, or more 
than 1.25 kPa for the duration of the test from the static pressures 
recorded when nothing is connected to the vehicle exhaust pipes. The 
pressure shall be measured in the exhaust outlet or in an extension 
having the same diameter and as near as possible to the end of the 
tailpipe. Sampling systems capable of maintaining the static pressure 
to within 0.25 kPa may be used if a written request from a 
manufacturer to the Test Agency substantiates the need for the tighter 
tolerance; 
(c) 
No component of the connecting tube shall be of a material that 
might affect the gaseous or solid composition of the exhaust gas. To 
avoid generation of any particles from elastomer connectors, 
elastomers employed shall be as thermally stable as possible and 
have minimum exposure to the exhaust gas. It is recommended not 
to use elastomer connectors to bridge the connection between the 
vehicle exhaust and the connecting tube. 
3.3.2. 
Dilution air conditioning 
3.3.2.1. 
The dilution air used for the primary dilution of the exhaust in the CVS tunnel 
shall pass through a medium capable of reducing particles of the most 
penetrating particle size in the filter material by ≤ 99.95 per cent, or through 
a filter of at least Class H13 of EN 1822:2009. This represents the 
specification of High Efficiency Particulate Air (HEPA) filters. The dilution 
air may optionally be charcoal-scrubbed before being passed to the HEPA 
filter. It is recommended that an additional coarse particle filter be situated 
before the HEPA filter and after the charcoal scrubber, if used. 
3.3.2.2. 
At the vehicle manufacturer's request, the dilution air may be sampled 
according to good engineering practice to determine the tunnel contribution 
to background particulate and, if PN measurement is required particle levels, 
which can be subsequently subtracted from the values measured in the diluted 
exhaust. See paragraph 2.1.3. of Annex B6. 
 
 



--- PAGE 242 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 242 of 762 
 
3.3.3. 
Dilution tunnel 
3.3.3.1. 
Provision shall be made for the vehicle exhaust gases and the dilution air to 
be mixed. A mixing device may be used. 
3.3.3.2. 
The homogeneity of the mixture in any cross-section at the location of the 
sampling probe shall not vary by more than ±2 per cent from the arithmetic 
average of the values obtained for at least five points located at equal intervals 
on the diameter of the gas stream. 
3.3.3.3. 
For PM and PN (if PN measurement is required) emissions sampling, a 
dilution tunnel shall be used that: 
(a) 
Consists of a straight tube of electrically-conductive material that is 
grounded; 
(b) 
Causes turbulent flow (Reynolds number  4,000) and be of 
sufficient length to cause complete mixing of the exhaust and 
dilution air; 
(c) 
Is at least 200 mm in diameter; 
(d) 
May be insulated and/or heated. 
3.3.4. 
Suction device 
3.3.4.1. 
This device may have a range of fixed speeds to ensure sufficient flow to 
prevent any water condensation. This result is obtained if the flow is either: 
(a) 
Twice as high as the maximum flow of exhaust gas produced by 
accelerations of the driving cycle; or 
(b) 
Sufficient to ensure that the CO2 concentration in the dilute exhaust 
sample bag is less than 3 per cent by volume for petrol and diesel, 
less than 2.2 per cent by volume for LPG and less than 1.5 per cent 
by volume for NG/biomethane. 
3.3.4.2. 
Compliance with the requirements in paragraph 3.3.4.1. of this annex may not 
be necessary if the CVS system is designed to inhibit condensation by such 
techniques, or combination of techniques, as: 
(a) 
Reducing water content in the dilution air (dilution air 
dehumidification); 
(b) 
Heating of the CVS dilution air and of all components up to the 
diluted exhaust flow measurement device and, optionally, the bag 
sampling system including the sample bags and also the system for 
the measurement of the bag concentrations. 



--- PAGE 243 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 243 of 762 
 
 
In such cases, the selection of the CVS flow rate for the test shall be justified 
by showing that condensation of water cannot occur at any point within the 
CVS, bag sampling or analytical system. 
3.3.5. 
Volume measurement in the primary dilution system 
3.3.5.1. 
The method of measuring total dilute exhaust volume incorporated in the 
constant volume sampler shall be such that measurement is accurate to 
±2 per cent under all operating conditions. If the device cannot compensate 
for variations in the temperature of the mixture of exhaust gases and dilution 
air at the measuring point, a heat exchanger shall be used to maintain the 
temperature to within ±6 °C of the specified operating temperature for a PDP 
CVS, ±11 °C for a CFV CVS, ±6 °C for a UFM CVS, and ±11 °C for an SSV 
CVS. 
3.3.5.2. 
If necessary, some form of protection for the volume measuring device may 
be used e.g. a cyclone separator, bulk stream filter, etc. 
3.3.5.3. 
A temperature sensor shall be installed immediately before the volume 
measuring device. This temperature sensor shall have an accuracy of ±1 °C 
and a response time of 1 second or less at 62 per cent of a given temperature 
variation (value measured in water or silicone oil). 
3.3.5.4. 
Measurement of the pressure difference from atmospheric pressure shall be 
taken upstream from and, if necessary, downstream from the volume 
measuring device. 
3.3.5.5. 
The pressure measurements shall have a precision and an accuracy of 
±0.4 kPa during the test. See Table A5/5. 
3.3.6. 
Recommended system description 
Figure A5/3 is a schematic drawing of exhaust dilution systems that meet the 
requirements of this annex. 
The following components are recommended: 
 
(a) 
A dilution air filter, which may be pre-heated if necessary. This filter 
shall consist of the following filters in sequence: an optional activated 
charcoal filter (inlet side), and a HEPA filter (outlet side). It is 
recommended that an additional coarse particle filter be situated before 
the HEPA filter and after the charcoal filter, if used. The purpose of 
the charcoal filter is to reduce and stabilize the hydrocarbon 
concentrations of ambient emissions in the dilution air; 
(b) 
A connecting tube by which vehicle exhaust is admitted into a dilution 
tunnel; 
(c) 
An optional heat exchanger as described in paragraph 3.3.5.1. of this 
annex; 



--- PAGE 244 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 244 of 762 
 
(d) 
A mixing device in which exhaust gas and dilution air are mixed 
homogeneously, and which may be located close to the vehicle so that 
the length of the connecting tube is minimized; 
 
(e) 
A dilution tunnel from which particulate and, if applicable, particles 
are sampled; 
(f) 
Some form of protection for the measurement system may be used e.g. 
a cyclone separator, bulk stream filter, etc.; 
(g) 
A suction device of sufficient capacity to handle the total volume of 
diluted exhaust gas. 
 
Exact conformity with these figures is not essential. Additional components 
such as instruments, valves, solenoids and switches may be used to provide 
additional information and co-ordinate the functions of the component 
system. 
Figure A5/3 
Exhaust dilution system 
 



--- PAGE 245 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 245 of 762 
 
3.3.6.1. 
Positive displacement pump (PDP) 
A positive displacement pump (PDP) full flow exhaust dilution system 
satisfies the requirements of this annex by metering the flow of gas through 
the pump at constant temperature and pressure. The total volume is measured 
by counting the revolutions made by the calibrated positive displacement 
pump. The proportional sample is achieved by sampling with pump, flow 
meter and flow control valve at a constant flow rate.  
3.3.6.2. 
Critical flow venturi (CFV) 
3.3.6.2.1. 
The use of a CFV for the full flow exhaust dilution system is based on the 
principles of flow mechanics for critical flow. The variable mixture flow rate 
of dilution and exhaust gas is maintained at sonic velocity that is directly 
proportional to the square root of the gas temperature. Flow is continually 
monitored, computed and integrated throughout the test. 
3.3.6.2.2. 
The use of an additional critical flow sampling venturi ensures the proportionality 
of the gas samples taken from the dilution tunnel. As both pressure and 
temperature are equal at the two venturi inlets, the volume of the gas flow 
diverted for sampling is proportional to the total volume of diluted exhaust gas 
mixture produced, and thus the requirements of this annex are fulfilled. 
3.3.6.2.3. 
A measuring CFV tube shall measure the flow volume of the diluted exhaust gas. 
3.3.6.3. 
Subsonic flow venturi (SSV) 
3.3.6.3.1. 
The use of an SSV (Figure A5/4) for a full flow exhaust dilution system is 
based on the principles of flow mechanics. The variable mixture flow rate of 
dilution and exhaust gas is maintained at a subsonic velocity that is calculated 
from the physical dimensions of the subsonic venturi and measurement of the 
absolute temperature (T) and pressure (P) at the venturi inlet and the pressure 
in the throat of the venturi. Flow is continually monitored, computed and 
integrated throughout the test. 
3.3.6.3.2. 
An SSV shall measure the flow volume of the diluted exhaust gas. 
 
Figure A5/4 
Schematic of a subsonic venturi tube (SSV) 
 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 246 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 246 of 762 
 
3.3.6.4. 
Ultrasonic flow meter (UFM) 
3.3.6.4.1. 
A UFM measures the velocity of the diluted exhaust gas in the CVS piping 
using the principle of ultrasonic flow detection by means of a pair, or multiple 
pairs, of ultrasonic transmitters/receivers mounted within the pipe as in 
Figure A5/5. The velocity of the flowing gas is determined by the difference 
in the time required for the ultrasonic signal to travel from transmitter to 
receiver in the upstream direction and the downstream direction. The gas 
velocity is converted to standard volumetric flow using a calibration factor 
for the tube diameter with real time corrections for the diluted exhaust 
temperature and absolute pressure. 
3.3.6.4.2. 
Components of the system include: 
 
(a) A suction device fitted with speed control, flow valve or other method for 
setting the CVS flow rate and also for maintaining constant volumetric 
flow at standard conditions; 
(b) A UFM; 
(c) Temperature and pressure measurement devices, T and P, required for 
flow correction; 
(d) An optional heat exchanger for controlling the temperature of the diluted 
exhaust to the UFM. If installed, the heat exchanger shall be capable of 
controlling the temperature of the diluted exhaust to that specified in 
paragraph 3.3.5.1. of this annex. Throughout the test, the temperature of 
the air/exhaust gas mixture measured at a point immediately upstream of 
the suction device shall be within ±6 °C of the arithmetic average 
operating temperature during the test. 
Figure A5/5 
Schematic of an ultrasonic flow meter (UFM) 
 
3.3.6.4.3. 
The following conditions shall apply to the design and use of the UFM type 
CVS: 
 
(a)
 
 
The velocity of the diluted exhaust gas shall provide a Reynolds number 
higher than 4,000 in order to maintain a consistent turbulent flow before 
the ultrasonic flow meter; 



--- PAGE 247 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 247 of 762 
 
(b) An ultrasonic flow meter shall be installed in a pipe of constant diameter 
with a length of 10 times the internal diameter upstream and 5 times the 
diameter downstream; 
(c) A temperature sensor (T) for the diluted exhaust shall be installed 
immediately before the ultrasonic flow meter. This sensor shall have an 
accuracy of ±1 °C and a response time of 0.1 seconds at 62 per cent of a 
given temperature variation (value measured in silicone oil); 
(d) The absolute pressure (P) of the diluted exhaust shall be measured 
immediately before the ultrasonic flow meter to within ±0.3 kPa; 
(e)
 
 
If a heat exchanger is not installed upstream of the ultrasonic flow meter, 
the flow rate of the diluted exhaust, corrected to standard conditions, shall 
be maintained at a constant level during the test. This may be achieved by 
control of the suction device, flow valve or other method. 
3.4. 
CVS calibration procedure 
3.4.1. 
General requirements 
3.4.1.1. 
The CVS system shall be calibrated by using an accurate flow meter and a 
restricting device and at the intervals listed in Table A5/4. The flow through 
the system shall be measured at various pressure readings and the control 
parameters of the system measured and related to the flows. The flow metering 
device (e.g. calibrated venturi, laminar flow element (LFE), calibrated turbine 
meter) shall be dynamic and suitable for the high flow rate encountered in 
constant volume sampler testing. The device shall be of certified accuracy. 
3.4.1.2. 
The following paragraphs describe methods for calibrating PDP, CFV, SSV 
and UFM units using a laminar flow meter, which gives the required accuracy, 
along with a statistical check on the calibration validity. 
3.4.2. 
Calibration of a positive displacement pump (PDP) 
3.4.2.1. 
The following calibration procedure outlines the equipment, the test 
configuration and the various parameters that are measured to establish the 
flow rate of the CVS pump. All the parameters related to the pump are 
simultaneously measured with the parameters related to the flow meter that is 
connected in series with the pump. The calculated flow rate (given in m3/min 
at pump inlet for the measured absolute pressure and temperature) shall be 
subsequently plotted versus a correlation function that includes the relevant 
pump parameters. The linear equation that relates the pump flow and the 
correlation function shall be subsequently determined. In the case that a CVS 
has a multiple speed drive, a calibration for each range used shall be performed. 
3.4.2.2. 
This calibration procedure is based on the measurement of the absolute values 
of the pump and flow meter parameters relating the flow rate at each point. The 
following conditions shall be maintained to ensure the accuracy and integrity 
of the calibration curve: 



--- PAGE 248 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 248 of 762 
 
3.4.2.2.1. 
The pump pressures shall be measured at tappings on the pump rather than at 
the external piping on the pump inlet and outlet. Pressure taps that are mounted 
at the top centre and bottom centre of the pump drive head plate are exposed 
to the actual pump cavity pressures, and therefore reflect the absolute pressure 
differentials. 
3.4.2.2.2. 
Temperature stability shall be maintained during the calibration. The laminar 
flow meter is sensitive to inlet temperature oscillations that cause data points 
to be scattered. Gradual changes of ±1 °C in temperature are acceptable as long 
as they occur over a period of several minutes. 
3.4.2.2.3. 
All connections between the flow meter and the CVS pump shall be free of 
leakage. 
3.4.2.3. 
During an exhaust emissions test, the measured pump parameters shall be used 
to calculate the flow rate from the calibration equation. 
3.4.2.4. 
Figure A5/6 of this annex shows an example of a calibration set-up. Variations 
are permissible, provided that the Test Agency approves them as being of 
comparable accuracy. If the set-up shown in Figure A5/6 is used, the following 
data shall be found within the limits of accuracy given: 
Barometric pressure (corrected), 𝑃𝑏 
±0.03 kPa 
Ambient temperature, 𝑇 
±0.2 °C 
Air temperature at LFE, ETI 
±0.15 °C 
Pressure depression upstream of LFE, EPI 
±0.01 kPa 
Pressure drop across the LFE matrix, 
EDP ±0.0015 kPa 
Air temperature at CVS pump inlet, PTI 
±0.2 °C 
Air temperature at CVS pump outlet, PTO 
±0.2 °C 
Pressure depression at CVS pump inlet, PPI 
±0.22 kPa 
Pressure head at CVS pump outlet, PPO 
±0.22 kPa 
Pump revolutions during test period, 𝑛 
±1 min-1 
Elapsed time for period (minimum 250 s), t 
±0.1 s 
Figure A5/6 
PDP calibration configuration 



--- PAGE 249 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 249 of 762 
 
 
3.4.2.5. 
After the system has been connected as shown in Figure A5/6, the variable 
restrictor shall be set in the wide-open position and the CVS pump shall run 
for 20 minutes before starting the calibration. 
3.4.2.5.1. 
The restrictor valve shall be reset to a more restricted condition in increments 
of pump inlet depression (about 1 kPa) that will yield a minimum of six data 
points for the total calibration. The system shall be allowed to stabilize for 
3 minutes before the data acquisition is repeated. 
3.4.2.5.2. 
The air flow rate 𝑄𝑠 at each test point shall be calculated in standard m3/min 
from the flow meter data using the manufacturer's prescribed method. 
3.4.2.5.3. 
The air flow rate shall be subsequently converted to pump flow 𝑉0 in m3/rev 
at absolute pump inlet temperature and pressure. 
𝑉0 = 𝑄𝑠
𝑛×
𝑇𝑝
273.15 𝐾× 101.325 𝑘𝑃𝑎
𝑃𝑝
 
 
where: 
 
𝑉0 
 is the pump flow rate at 𝑇𝑝 and 𝑃𝑝, m3/rev; 
𝑄𝑠 
 is the air flow at 101.325 kPa and 273.15 K (0 °C), m3/min; 
𝑇𝑝 
 is the pump inlet temperature, Kelvin (K); 
𝑃𝑝 
 is the absolute pump inlet pressure, kPa; 
𝑛 
 is the pump speed, min-1. 
 
 
3.4.2.5.4. 
To compensate for the interaction of pump speed pressure variations at the 
pump and the pump slip rate, the correlation function 𝑥0 between the pump 
speed 𝑛, the pressure differential from pump inlet to pump outlet and the 



--- PAGE 250 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 250 of 762 
 
absolute pump outlet pressure shall be calculated using the following 
equation: 
𝑥0 = 1
𝑛√∆𝑃𝑝
𝑃𝑒
 
 
where: 
𝑥0 
 is the correlation function; 
∆𝑃𝑝 
 is the pressure differential from pump inlet to pump outlet, kPa; 
𝑃𝑒 
absolute outlet pressure (𝑃𝑃𝑂 + 𝑃𝑏), kPa. 
 
A linear least squares fit shall be performed to generate the calibration 
equations having the following form: 
𝑉0 = 𝐷0 −𝑀× 𝑥0 
𝑛= 𝐴−𝐵 × ∆𝑃𝑝 
 where B and M are the slopes, and A and D0 are the intercepts of the lines. 
 3.4.2.6. 
A CVS system having multiple speeds shall be calibrated at each speed used. 
The calibration curves generated for the ranges shall be approximately parallel 
and the intercept values 𝐷0 shall increase as the pump flow range decreases. 
3.4.2.7. 
The calculated values from the equation shall be within 0.5 per cent of the 
measured value of 𝑉0. Values of 𝑀 will vary from one pump to another. A 
calibration shall be performed at initial installation and after major 
maintenance. 
3.4.3. 
Calibration of a critical flow venturi (CFV) 
3.4.3.1. 
Calibration of a CFV is based upon the flow equation for a critical venturi: 
𝑄𝑠= 𝐾𝑣𝑃
√𝑇
 
 
where: 
𝑄𝑠 
is the flow, m³/min; 
𝐾𝑣 
is the calibration coefficient; 
𝑃 
is the absolute pressure, kPa; 
𝑇 
is the absolute temperature, Kelvin (K). 
 
Gas flow is a function of inlet pressure and temperature. 



--- PAGE 251 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 251 of 762 
 
 
The calibration procedure described in paragraphs 3.4.3.2. to 3.4.3.3.3.4. 
inclusive of this annex establishes the value of the calibration coefficient at 
measured values of pressure, temperature and air flow. 
3.4.3.2. 
Measurements for flow calibration of a critical flow venturi are required and 
the following data shall be within the limits of accuracy given: 
 
Barometric pressure (corrected), 𝑃𝑏 
±0.03 kPa, 
LFE air temperature, flow meter, ETI 
±0.15 °C, 
Pressure depression upstream of LFE, EPI 
±0.01 kPa, 
 
Pressure drop across LFE matrix, EDP 
±0.0015 kPa, 
Air flow, Qs 
±0.5 per cent, 
CFV inlet depression, PPI 
±0.02 kPa, 
Temperature at venturi inlet, 𝑇𝑣 
±0.2 °C. 
 
 
3.4.3.3. 
The equipment shall be set up as shown in Figure A5/7 and checked for leaks. 
Any leaks between the flow-measuring device and the critical flow venturi 
will seriously affect the accuracy of the calibration and shall therefore be 
prevented. 
Figure A5/7 
CFV calibration configuration 
 



--- PAGE 252 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 252 of 762 
 
3.4.3.3.1. 
The variable-flow restrictor shall be set to the open position, the suction 
device shall be started and the system stabilized. Data from all instruments 
shall be collected. 
3.4.3.3.2. 
The flow restrictor shall be varied and at least eight readings across the critical 
flow range of the venturi shall be made. 
3.4.3.3.3. 
The data recorded during the calibration shall be used in the following 
calculation: 
3.4.3.3.3.1. The air flow rate Qs at each test point shall be calculated from the flow 
meter data using the manufacturer's prescribed method. 
Values of the calibration coefficient shall be calculated for each test point: 
𝐾𝑣= 𝑄𝑠√𝑇𝑣
𝑃𝑣
 
 
where: 
𝑄𝑠 
is the flow rate, m3/min at 273.15 K (0 °C) and 101.325, kPa; 
𝑇𝑣 
is the temperature at the venturi inlet, Kelvin (K); 
𝑃𝑣 
is the absolute pressure at the venturi inlet, kPa. 
3.4.3.3.3.2 
𝐾𝑣 shall be plotted as a function of venturi inlet pressure Pv. For sonic flow 
𝐾𝑣 will have a relatively constant value. As pressure decreases (vacuum 
increases), the venturi becomes unchoked and 𝐾𝑣 decreases. These values of 
𝐾𝑣 shall not be used for further calculations 
3.4.3.3.3.3. For a minimum of eight points in the critical region, an arithmetic average 𝐾𝑣 
and the standard deviation shall be calculated. 
3.4.3.3.3.4. If the standard deviation exceeds 0.3 per cent of the arithmetic average 𝐾𝑣, 
corrective action shall be taken. 
3.4.4. 
Calibration of a subsonic venturi (SSV) 
3.4.4.1. 
Calibration of the SSV is based upon the flow equation for a subsonic venturi. 
Gas flow is a function of inlet pressure and temperature, and the pressure drop 
between the SSV inlet and throat. 
3.4.4.2. 
Data analysis 
3.4.4.2.1. 
The airflow rate, 𝑄𝑆𝑆𝑉, at each restriction setting (minimum 16 settings) shall 
be calculated in standard m3/s from the flow meter data using the 
manufacturer's prescribed method. The discharge coefficient 𝐶𝑑 shall be 
calculated from the calibration data for each setting using the following 
equation: 



--- PAGE 253 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 253 of 762 
 
 
𝐶𝑑=
𝑄𝑆𝑆𝑉
𝑑𝑉
2 × 𝑝𝑝× √{1
𝑇× (𝑟𝑝
1.426 −𝑟𝑝
1.713) × (
1
1 −𝑟𝐷
4 × 𝑟𝑝
1.426)}
 
 
where: 
 
QSSV 
is the airflow rate at standard conditions (101.325 kPa, 273.15 K 
(0 °C)), m3/s; 
     T 
is the temperature at the venturi inlet, Kelvin (K); 
𝑑𝑉 
 is the diameter of the SSV throat, m; 
    rp 
is the ratio of the SSV throat pressure to inlet absolute static 
pressure, 1 −
∆𝑝
𝑝𝑝; 
𝑟𝐷 
is the ratio of the SSV throat diameter dV to the inlet pipe inner 
diameter 𝐷; 
𝐶𝑑 
is the discharge coefficient of the SSV; 
𝑝𝑝 
is the absolute pressure at venturi inlet, kPa. 
 
To determine the range of subsonic flow, 𝐶𝑑 shall be plotted as a function of 
Reynolds number 𝑅𝑒 at the SSV throat. The Reynolds number at the SSV 
throat shall be calculated using the following equation: 
𝑅𝑒= 𝐴1 × 𝑄𝑆𝑆𝑉
𝑑𝑉× 𝜇 
 
where: 
= 𝑏× 𝑇1.5
𝑆+ 𝑇 
 
𝐴1 
𝜇 
 
is 25.55152 in SI, (
1
𝑚3) (
𝑚𝑖𝑛
𝑠) (
𝑚𝑚
𝑚); 
𝑄𝑆𝑆𝑉 
is the airflow rate at standard conditions (101.325 kPa, 273.15 K 
(0 °C)), m3/s; 
𝑑𝑉 
is the diameter of the SSV throat, m; 



--- PAGE 254 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 254 of 762 
 
 
𝜇 
 is the absolute or dynamic viscosity of the gas, kg/ms; 
𝑏 
is 1.458 × 106 (empirical constant), kg/ms K0.5; 
𝑆 
is 110.4 (empirical constant), Kelvin (K). 
3.4.4.2.2. 
Because QSSV is an input to the Re equation, the calculations shall be started 
with an initial estimate for QSSV or Cd of the calibration venturi, and repeated 
until QSSV converges. The convergence method shall be accurate to at least 
0.1 per cent. 
3.4.4.2.3. 
For a minimum of sixteen points in the region of subsonic flow, the calculated 
values of Cd from the resulting calibration curve fit equation shall be within 
±0.5 per cent of the measured Cd for each calibration point. 
3.4.5. 
Calibration of an ultrasonic flow meter (UFM) 
3.4.5.1. 
The UFM shall be calibrated against a suitable reference flow meter. 
3.4.5.2. 
The UFM shall be calibrated in the CVS configuration that will be used in the 
test cell (diluted exhaust piping, suction device) and checked for leaks. See 
Figure A5/8. 
3.4.5.3. 
A heater shall be installed to condition the calibration flow in the event that 
the UFM system does not include a heat exchanger. 
3.4.5.4. 
For each CVS flow setting that will be used, the calibration shall be performed 
at temperatures from room temperature to the maximum that will be 
experienced during vehicle testing. 
3.4.5.5. 
The manufacturer's recommended procedure shall be followed for calibrating 
the electronic portions (temperature (T) and pressure (P) sensors) of the UFM. 
3.4.5.6. 
Measurements for flow calibration of the ultrasonic flow meter are required 
and the following data (in the case that a laminar flow element is used) shall 
be found within the limits of accuracy given: 
 
Barometric pressure (corrected), 𝑃𝑏 
±0.03 kPa, 
LFE air temperature, flow meter, ETI 
±0.15 °C, 
Pressure depression upstream of LFE, EPI 
±0.01 kPa, 
Pressure drop across (EDP) LFE matrix 
±0.0015 kPa, 
Air flow, 𝑄𝑠 
±0.5 per cent, 
UFM inlet depression, 𝑃𝑎𝑐𝑡 
±0.02 kPa, 



--- PAGE 255 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 255 of 762 
 
 
Temperature at UFM inlet, 𝑇𝑎𝑐𝑡 ±0.2 °C. 
3.4.5.7. 
Procedure 
3.4.5.7.1. 
The equipment shall be set up as shown in Figure A5/8 and checked for leaks. 
Any leaks between the flow-measuring device and the UFM will seriously 
affect the accuracy of the calibration. 
Figure A5/8 
UFM calibration configuration 
 
3.4.5.7.2. 
The suction device shall be started. Its speed and/or the position of the flow 
valve shall be adjusted to provide the set flow for the validation and the system 
stabilised. Data from all instruments shall be collected. 
3.4.5.7.3.  For UFM systems without a heat exchanger, the heater shall be operated to 
increase the temperature of the calibration air, allowed to stabilise and data 
from all the instruments recorded. The temperature shall be increased in 
reasonable steps until the maximum expected diluted exhaust temperature 
expected during the emissions test is reached. 
3.4.5.7.4. 
The heater shall be subsequently turned off and the suction device speed and/or 
flow valve shall be adjusted to the next flow setting that will be used for vehicle 
emissions testing after which the calibration sequence shall be repeated. 
3.4.5.8. 
The data recorded during the calibration shall be used in the following 
calculations. The air flow rate Qs at each test point shall be calculated from the 
flow meter data using the manufacturer's prescribed method. 
𝐾𝑣= 𝑄𝑟𝑒𝑓𝑒𝑟𝑒𝑛𝑐𝑒
𝑄𝑠
 
where: 
𝑄𝑠 
is the air flow rate at standard conditions (101.325 kPa, 
273.15 K (0 °C)), m3/s; 



--- PAGE 256 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 256 of 762 
 
𝑄𝑟𝑒𝑓𝑒𝑟𝑒𝑛𝑐𝑒 
is the air flow rate of the calibration flow meter at 
standard conditions (101.325 kPa, 273.15 K (0 °C)), m3/s; 
𝐾𝑣 
is the calibration coefficient. 
For UFM systems without a heat exchanger, 𝐾𝑣 shall be plotted as a function 
of Tact. 
The maximum variation in 𝐾𝑣 shall not exceed 0.3 per cent of the arithmetic 
average 𝐾𝑣 value of all the measurements taken at the different temperatures. 
3.5. 
System verification procedure 
3.5.1. 
General requirements 
3.5.1.1. 
The total accuracy of the CVS sampling system and analytical system shall 
be determined by introducing a known mass of an emissions gas compound 
into the system whilst it is being operated under normal test conditions and 
subsequently analysing and calculating the emission gas compounds 
according to the equations of Annex B7. The CFO method described in 
paragraph 3.5.1.1.1. of this annex and the gravimetric method described in 
paragraph 3.5.1.1.2. of this annex are both known to give sufficient accuracy. 
The maximum permissible deviation between the quantity of gas introduced 
and the quantity of gas measured is ±2 per cent. 
3.5.1.1.1. 
Critical flow orifice (CFO) method 
The CFO method meters a constant flow of pure gas (CO, CO2, or C3H8) 
using a critical flow orifice device. 
A known mass of pure carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide or propane gas shall 
be introduced into the CVS system through the calibrated critical orifice. If 
the inlet pressure is high enough, the flow rate 𝑞 which is restricted by means 
of the critical flow orifice, is independent of orifice outlet pressure (critical 
flow). The CVS system shall be operated as in a normal exhaust emissions 
test and enough time shall be allowed for subsequent analysis. The gas 
collected in the sample bag shall be analysed by the usual equipment (see 
paragraph 4.1. of this annex) and the results compared to the concentration of 
the known gas samples. If deviations exceed ±2 per cent, the cause of the 
malfunction shall be determined and corrected. 
3.5.1.1.2. 
Gravimetric method 
The gravimetric method weighs a quantity of pure gas (CO, CO2, or C3H8). 
The weight of a small cylinder filled with either pure carbon monoxide, 
carbon dioxide or propane shall be determined with a precision of ±0.01 g. 
The CVS system shall operate under normal exhaust emissions test conditions 



--- PAGE 257 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 257 of 762 
 
while the pure gas is injected into the system for a time sufficient for 
subsequent analysis. The quantity of pure gas involved shall 
be determined by means of differential weighing. The gas accumulated in the 
bag shall be analysed by means of the equipment normally used for exhaust 
gas analysis as described in paragraph 4.1. of this annex. The results shall be 
subsequently compared to the concentration figures computed previously. If 
deviations exceed ±2 per cent, the cause of the malfunction shall be 
determined and corrected. 
4.0 
Emissions measurement equipment 
4.1. 
Gaseous emissions measurement equipment 
4.1.1. 
System overview 
4.1.1.1. 
A continuously proportional sample of the diluted exhaust gases and the 
dilution air shall be collected for analysis. 
4.1.1.2. 
The mass of gaseous emissions shall be determined from the proportional 
sample concentrations and the total volume measured during the test. Sample 
concentrations shall be corrected to consider the respective compound 
concentrations in dilution air. 
4.1.2. 
Sampling system requirements 
4.1.2.1. 
The sample of diluted exhaust gases shall be taken upstream from the suction 
device. 
With the exception of paragraphs 4.1.3.1. (hydrocarbon sampling system), 
paragraph 4.2. (PM measurement equipment) and paragraph 4.3 (PN 
measurement equipment) of this annex, the dilute exhaust gas sample may be 
taken downstream of the conditioning devices (if any). 
4.1.2.2. 
The bag sampling flow rate shall be set to provide sufficient volumes of 
dilution air and diluted exhaust in the CVS bags to allow concentration 
measurement and shall not exceed 0.3 per cent of the flow rate of the dilute 
exhaust gases, unless the diluted exhaust bag fill volume is added to the 
integrated CVS volume. 
4.1.2.3. 
A sample of the dilution air shall be taken near the dilution air inlet (after the 
filter if one is fitted). 
4.1.2.4. 
The dilution air sample shall not be contaminated by exhaust gases from the 
mixing area. 
4.1.2.5. 
The sampling rate for the dilution air shall be comparable to that used for the 
dilute exhaust gases. 



--- PAGE 258 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 258 of 762 
 
 
4.1.2.6. 
The materials used for the sampling operations shall be such as not to change 
the concentration of the emissions compounds. 
4.1.2.7. 
Filters may be used in order to extract the solid particles from the sample. 
4.1.2.8. 
Any valve used to direct the exhaust gases shall be of a quick-adjustment, 
quick-acting type. 
4.1.2.9. 
Quick-fastening, gas-tight connections may be used between three-way 
valves and the sample bags, the connections sealing themselves automatically 
on the bag side. Other systems may be used for conveying the samples to the 
analyser (e.g. three-way stop valves). 
4.1.2.10. 
Sample storage 
4.1.2.10.1. 
The gas samples shall be collected in sample bags of sufficient capacity so as 
not to impede the sample flow. 
4.1.2.10.2. 
The bag material shall be such as to affect neither the measurements 
themselves nor the chemical composition of the gas samples by more than 
±2 per cent after 30 minutes (e.g., laminated polyethylene/polyamide films, 
or fluorinated polyhydrocarbons). 
4.1.3. 
Sampling systems 
4.1.3.1. 
Hydrocarbon sampling system (heated flame ionisation detector, HFID) 
4.1.3.1.1. 
The hydrocarbon sampling system shall consist of a heated sampling probe, 
line, filter and pump. The sample shall be taken upstream of the heat 
exchanger (if fitted). The sampling probe shall be installed at the same 
distance from the exhaust gas inlet as the particulate sampling probe and in 
such a way that neither interferes with samples taken by the other. It shall 
have a minimum internal diameter of 4 mm. 
4.1.3.1.2. 
All heated parts shall be maintained at a temperature of 190 °C ±10 °C by the 
heating system. 
4.1.3.1.3. 
The arithmetic average concentration of the measured hydrocarbons shall be 
determined by integration of the second-by-second data divided by the phase 
or test duration. 
4.1.3.1.4. 
The heated sampling line shall be fitted with a heated filter FH having a 
99 per cent efficiency for particles ≥ 0.3 μm to extract any solid particles 
from the continuous flow of gas required for analysis. 
4.1.3.1.5. 
The sampling system delay time (from the probe to the analyser inlet) shall 
be no more than 4 seconds. 



--- PAGE 259 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 259 of 762 
 
4.1.3.1.6. 
The HFID shall be used with a constant mass flow (heat exchanger) system to 
ensure a representative sample, unless compensation for varying CVS volume 
flow is made. 
4.1.3.2. 
(Reserved) 
4.1.4. 
Analysers 
4.1.4.1. 
General requirements for gas analysis 
4.1.4.1.1. 
The analysers shall have a measuring range compatible with the accuracy 
required to measure the concentrations of the exhaust gas sample compounds. 
4.1.4.1.2. 
If not defined otherwise, measurement errors shall not exceed ±2 per cent 
(intrinsic error of analyser) disregarding the reference value for the calibration 
gases. 
4.1.4.1.3. 
The ambient air sample shall be measured on the same analyser with the same 
range. 
4.1.4.1.4. 
No gas drying device shall be used before the analysers unless it is shown to 
have no effect on the content of the compound in the gas stream. 
4.1.4.2. 
Carbon monoxide (CO) and carbon dioxide (CO2) analysis 
The analysers shall be of the non-dispersive infrared (NDIR) absorption type. 
4.1.4.3. 
Hydrocarbons (HC) analysis for all fuels other than diesel fuel 
The analyser shall be of the flame ionization (FID) type calibrated with 
propane gas expressed in equivalent carbon atoms (C1). 
4.1.4.4. 
Hydrocarbons (HC) analysis for diesel fuel and optionally for other fuels 
The analyser shall be of the heated flame ionization type with detector, valves, 
pipework, etc., heated to 190 °C  10 °C. It shall be calibrated with propane 
gas expressed equivalent to carbon atoms (C1). 
4.1.4.5. 
Methane (CH4) analysis 
The analyser shall be either a gas chromatograph combined with a flame 
ionization detector (FID), or a flame ionization detector (FID) combined 
with a non-methane cutter (NMC-FID), calibrated with methane or propane 
gas expressed equivalent to carbon atoms (C1). 
4.1.4.6. 
Nitrogen oxides (NOx) analysis 
The analysers shall be of chemiluminescent (CLA) or non-dispersive ultra-
violet resonance absorption (NDUV) types. 
4.1.4.7. 
(Reserved) 



--- PAGE 260 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 260 of 762 
 
4.1.4.8. 
(Reserved) 
4.1.4.9. 
(Reserved) 
4.1.4.10. 
(Reserved) 
4.1.4.11. 
Hydrogen (H2) analysis (if applicable) 
The analyser shall be of the sector field mass spectrometry type, calibrated 
with hydrogen. 
4.1.4.12. 
Water (H2O) analysis (if applicable) 
The analyser shall be of the non-dispersive infrared analyzer (NDIR) 
absorption type. The NDIR shall be calibrated either with water vapour or 
with propylene (C3H6). If the NDIR is calibrated with water vapour, it shall 
be ensured that no water condensation can occur in tubes and connections 
during the calibration process. If the NDIR is calibrated with propylene, the 
manufacturer of the analyzer shall provide the information for converting the 
concentration of propylene to its corresponding concentration of water 
vapour. The values for conversion shall be periodically checked by the 
manufacturer of the analyzer, and at least once per year. 
4.1.5. 
Recommended system descriptions 
4.1.5.1. 
Figure A5/9 is a schematic drawing of the gaseous emissions sampling 
system. 
Figure A5/9 
Full flow exhaust dilution system schematic 
 
4.1.5.2. 
Examples of system components are as listed below. 
Dilution air sample to: 
- CVS bags 
- PM sampling (optional) 
- other devices  
Vehicle 
exhaust 
Dilution tunnel 
HFID 
Heat 
exchanger 
(optional) 
Vent 
- CVS bag sampling 
- other sampling systems 
MC 
Flow meter and 
suction device 
Mixing  
device 
Dilution air 
PN 
 
PDP, CFV, SSV, UFM 
- continuous diluted exhaust analysers 
- other sampling systems 
- CVS bag sample (optional) 
  
PM 



--- PAGE 261 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 261 of 762 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.1.5.2.1. 
Two sampling probes for continuous sampling of the dilution air and of the 
diluted exhaust gas/air mixture. 
4.1.5.2.2. 
A filter to extract solid particles from the flows of gas collected for analysis. 
4.1.5.2.3. 
Pumps and flow controller to ensure constant uniform flow of diluted 
exhaust gas and dilution air samples taken during the course of the test from 
sampling probes and flow of the gas samples shall be such that, at the end 
of each test, the quantity of the samples is sufficient for analysis. 
4.1.5.2.4. 
Quick-acting valves to divert a constant flow of gas samples into the sample 
bags or to the outside vent. 
4.1.5.2.5. 
Gas-tight, quick-lock coupling elements between the quick-acting valves 
and the sample bags. The coupling shall close automatically on the sampling 
bag side. As an alternative, other methods of transporting the samples to the 
analyser may be used (three-way stopcocks, for instance). 
4.1.5.2.6. 
Bags for collecting samples of the diluted exhaust gas and of the dilution air 
during the test. 
4.1.5.2.7. 
A sampling critical flow venturi to take proportional samples of the diluted 
exhaust gas (CFV-CVS only). 
4.1.5.3. 
Additional components required for hydrocarbon sampling using a heated 
flame ionization detector (HFID) as shown in Figure A5/10. 
4.1.5.3.1. 
Heated sample probe in the dilution tunnel located in the same vertical plane 
as the particulate and, if applicable, particle sample probes. 
4.1.5.3.2. 
Heated filter located after the sampling point and before the HFID. 
4.1.5.3.3. 
Heated selection valves between the zero/calibration gas supplies and the 
HFID. 
4.1.5.3.4. 
Means 
of 
integrating 
and 
recording 
instantaneous 
hydrocarbon 
concentrations. 
4.1.5.3.5. 
Heated sampling lines and heated components from the heated probe to the 
HFID. 



--- PAGE 262 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 262 of 762 
 
Figure A5/10 
Components required for hydrocarbon sampling using an HFID 
 
4.2. 
PM measurement equipment 
4.2.1. 
Specification 
4.2.1.1. 
System overview 
4.2.1.1.1. 
The particulate sampling unit shall consist of a sampling probe (PSP), located in 
the dilution tunnel, a particle transfer tube (PTT), a filter holder(s) (FH), pump(s), 
flow rate regulators and measuring units. See Figures A5/11, A5/12 and A5/13. 
4.2.1.1.2. 
A particle size pre-classifier (PCF), (e.g. cyclone or impactor) may be used. 
In such case, it is recommended that it be employed upstream of the filter 
holder. 
 
Figure A5/11 
Alternative particulate sampling probe configuration 
 
4.2.1.2. 
General requirements 



--- PAGE 263 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 263 of 762 
 
 
 
4.2.1.2.1. 
The sampling probe for the test gas flow for particulate shall be arranged 
within the dilution tunnel so that a representative sample gas flow can be taken 
from the homogeneous air/exhaust mixture and shall be upstream of a heat 
exchanger (if any). 
4.2.1.2.2. 
The particulate sample flow rate shall be proportional to the total mass flow 
of diluted exhaust gas in the dilution tunnel to within a tolerance of ±5 per cent 
of the particulate sample flow rate. The verification of the proportionality of 
the particulate sampling shall be made during the commissioning of the 
system and as required by the Test Agency. 
4.2.1.2.3. 
The sampled dilute exhaust gas shall be maintained at a temperature above 
20 °C and below 52 °C within 20 cm upstream or downstream of the 
particulate sampling filter face. Heating or insulation of components of the 
particulate sampling system to achieve this is permitted.  
In the event that the 52 °C limit is exceeded during a test where periodic 
regeneration event does not occur, the CVS flow rate shall be increased or 
double dilution shall be applied (assuming that the CVS flow rate is already 
sufficient so as not to cause condensation within the CVS, sample bags or 
analytical system). 
4.2.1.2.4. 
The particulate sample shall be collected on a single filter mounted within a 
holder in the sampled dilute exhaust gas flow. 
4.2.1.2.5. 
All parts of the dilution system and the sampling system from the exhaust pipe 
up to the filter holder that are in contact with raw and diluted exhaust gas shall 
be designed to minimise deposition or alteration of the particulate. All parts 
shall be made of electrically conductive materials that do not react with 
exhaust gas components, and shall be electrically grounded to prevent 
electrostatic effects. 
4.2.1.2.6. 
If it is not possible to compensate for variations in the flow rate, provision 
shall be made for a heat exchanger and a temperature control device as 
specified in paragraphs 3.3.5.1. or 3.3.6.4.2. of this annex, so as to ensure that 
the flow rate in the system is constant and the sampling rate accordingly 
proportional. 
4.2.1.2.7. 
Temperatures required for the measurement of PM shall be measured with an 
accuracy of ±1 °C and a response time (𝑡90– 𝑡10) of 15 seconds or less. 
4.2.1.2.8. 
The sample flow from the dilution tunnel shall be measured with an accuracy 
of ±2.5 per cent of reading or ±1.5 per cent full scale, whichever is the least. 
The accuracy specified above of the sample flow from the CVS tunnel is also 
applicable where double dilution is used. Consequently, the measurement and 
control of the secondary dilution air flow and diluted exhaust flow rates 
through the filter shall be of a higher accuracy. 



--- PAGE 264 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 264 of 762 
 
4.2.1.2.9. 
All data channels required for the measurement of PM shall be logged at a 
frequency of 1 Hz or faster. Typically, these would include: 
(a) 
Diluted exhaust temperature at the particulate sampling filter; 
(b) 
Sampling flow rate; 
(c) 
Secondary dilution air flow rate (if secondary dilution is used); 
(d) 
Secondary dilution air temperature (if secondary dilution is used). 
4.2.1.2.10. For double dilution systems, the accuracy of the diluted exhaust transferred 
from the dilution tunnel Vep defined in paragraph 3.3.2. of Annex B7 in the 
equation is not measured directly but determined by differential flow 
measurement. 
The accuracy of the flow meters used for the measurement and control of the 
double diluted exhaust passing through the particulate sampling filters and for 
the measurement/control of secondary dilution air shall be sufficient so that 
the differential volume Vep shall meet the accuracy and proportional sampling 
requirements specified for single dilution. 
The requirement that no condensation of the exhaust gas occur in the CVS 
dilution tunnel, diluted exhaust flow rate measurement system, CVS bag 
collection or analysis systems shall also apply in the case that double dilution 
systems are used. 
4.2.1.2.11. Each flow meter used in a particulate sampling and double dilution system 
shall be subjected to a linearity verification as required by the instrument 
manufacturer. 
Figure A5/12 
Particulate sampling system 
 



--- PAGE 265 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 265 of 762 
 
Figure A5/13 
Double dilution particulate sampling system 
 
4.2.1.3. 
Specific requirements 
4.2.1.3.1. 
Sample probe 
4.2.1.3.1.1. 
The sample probe shall deliver the particle size classification performance 
specified in paragraph 4.2.1.3.1.4. of this annex. It is recommended that this 
performance be achieved by the use of a sharp-edged, open-ended probe 
facing directly into the direction of flow plus a pre-classifier (cyclone 
impactor, etc.). An appropriate sample probe, such as that indicated in 
Figure A5/11, may alternatively be used provided it achieves the pre-
classification performance specified in paragraph 4.2.1.3.1.4. of this annex. 
 
4.2.1.3.1.2. 
The sample probe shall be installed at least 10 tunnel diameters downstream 
of the exhaust gas inlet to the tunnel and have an internal diameter of at least 
8 mm. 
 
If more than one simultaneous sample is drawn from a single sample probe, 
the flow drawn from that probe shall be split into identical sub-flows to avoid 
sampling artefacts. 
If multiple probes are used, each probe shall be sharp-edged, open-ended and 
facing directly into the direction of flow. Probes shall be equally spaced 
around the central longitudinal axis of the dilution tunnel, with a spacing 
between probes of at least 5 cm. 
 
4.2.1.3.1.3. 
The distance from the sampling tip to the filter mount shall be at least five 
probe diameters, but shall not exceed 2,000 mm. 
 
4.2.1.3.1.4. 
The pre-classifier (e.g. cyclone, impactor, etc.) shall be located upstream of 
the filter holder assembly. The pre-classifier 50 per cent cut point particle 



--- PAGE 266 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 266 of 762 
 
diameter shall be between 2.5 μm and 10 μm at the volumetric flow rate 
selected for sampling PM. The pre-classifier shall allow at least 99 per cent 
of the mass concentration of 1 μm particles entering the pre-classifier to pass 
through the exit of the pre-classifier at the volumetric flow rate selected for 
sampling PM. 
 
4.2.1.3.2. 
Particle transfer tube (PTT) 
Any bends in the PTT shall be smooth and have the largest possible radii.  
 
4.2.1.3.3. 
Secondary dilution 
4.2.1.3.3.1. 
As an option, the sample extracted from the CVS for the purpose of PM 
measurement may be diluted at a second stage, subject to the following 
requirements: 
 
4.2.1.3.3.1.1. Secondary dilution air shall be filtered through a medium capable of reducing 
particles in the most penetrating particle size of the filter material by 
≥ 99.95 per cent, or through a HEPA filter of at least Class H13 of 
EN 1822:2009. The dilution air may optionally be charcoal-scrubbed before 
being passed to the HEPA filter. It is recommended that an additional coarse 
particle filter be situated before the HEPA filter and after the charcoal 
scrubber, if used. 
4.2.1.3.3.1.2. The secondary dilution air should be injected into the PTT as close to the 
outlet of the diluted exhaust from the dilution tunnel as possible. 
4.2.1.3.3.1.3. The residence time from the point of secondary diluted air injection to the 
filter face shall be at least 0.25 seconds, but no longer than 5 seconds. 
4.2.1.3.3.1.4. If the double diluted sample is returned to the CVS, the location of the sample 
return shall be selected so that it does not interfere with the extraction of other 
samples from the CVS. 
4.2.1.3.4. 
Sample pump and flow meter 
4.2.1.3.4.1.  
The sample gas flow measurement unit shall consist of pumps, gas flow 
regulators and flow measuring units. 
4.2.1.3.4.2. 
The temperature of the gas flow in the flow meter may not fluctuate by more 
than ±3 °C except: 
(a) When the sampling flow meter has real time monitoring and flow control 
operating at a frequency of 1 Hz or faster; 
(b) During regeneration tests on vehicles equipped with periodically 
regenerating after-treatment devices. 



--- PAGE 267 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 267 of 762 
 
Should the volume of flow change unacceptably as a result of excessive filter 
loading, the test shall be invalidated. When it is repeated, the flow rate shall 
be decreased. 
4.2.1.3.5. 
Filter and filter holder 
4.2.1.3.5.1. 
A valve shall be located downstream of the filter in the direction of flow. The 
valve shall open and close within 1 second of the start and end of test. 
4.2.1.3.5.2. 
For a given test, the gas filter face velocity shall be set to an initial value 
within the range 20 cm/s to 105 cm/s and shall be set at the start of the test 
so that 105 cm/s will not be exceeded when the dilution system is being 
operated with sampling flow proportional to CVS flow rate. 
4.2.1.3.5.3. 
Fluorocarbon coated glass fibre filters or fluorocarbon membrane filters shall 
be used. 
All filter types shall have a 0.3 μm DOP (di-octylphthalate) or PAO (poly-
alpha-olefin) CS 68649-12-7 or CS 68037-01-4 collection efficiency of at 
least 99 per cent at a gas filter face velocity of 5.33 cm/s measured according 
to one of the following standards: 
(a) U.S.A. Department of Defense Test Method Standard, MIL-STD-282 
method 102.8: DOP-Smoke Penetration of Aerosol-Filter Element; 
(b) U.S.A. Department of Defense Test Method Standard, MIL-STD-282 
method 502.1.1: DOP-Smoke Penetration of Gas-Mask Canisters; 
(c) Institute of Environmental Sciences and Technology, IEST-RP-CC021: 
Testing HEPA and ULPA Filter Media. 
4.2.1.3.5.4.  
The filter holder assembly shall be of a design that provides an even flow 
distribution across the filter stain area. The filter shall be round and have a 
stain area of at least 1,075 mm2. 
4.2.2. 
Weighing chamber (or room) and analytical balance specifications 
4.2.2.1. 
Weighing chamber (or room) conditions 
(a) The temperature of the weighing chamber (or room) in which the 
particulate sampling filters are conditioned and weighed shall be 
maintained to within 22 °C ±2 °C (22 °C ±1 °C if possible) during all 
filter conditioning and weighing; 
(b) Humidity shall be maintained at a dew point of less than 10.5 °C and a 
relative humidity of 45 per cent ±8 per cent; 
(c) Limited deviations from weighing chamber (or room) temperature and 
humidity specifications shall be permitted provided their total duration 
does not exceed 30 minutes in any one filter conditioning period; 
(d) The levels of ambient contaminants in the weighing chamber (or room) 
environment that would settle on the particulate sampling filters during 
their stabilisation shall be minimised; 



--- PAGE 268 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 268 of 762 
 
(e) During the weighing operation no deviations from the specified 
conditions are permitted. 
4.2.2.2. 
Linear response of an analytical balance 
The analytical balance used to determine the filter weight shall meet the 
linearity verification criteria of Table A5/1 applying a linear regression. This 
implies a precision of at least ±2 µg and a resolution of at least 1 µg 
(1 digit = 1 µg). At least 4 equally-spaced reference weights shall be tested. 
The zero value shall be within ±1 µg. 
Table A5/1 
Analytical balance verification criteria 
Measurement system Intercept a0 Slope a1 
Standard error of 
estimate ( SEE) 
Coefficient of 
determination r2 
Particulate balance 
≤ 1 µg 
0.99 – 1.01 ≤ 1 per cent max 
≥ 0.998 
4.2.2.3. 
Elimination of static electricity effects 
The effects of static electricity shall be nullified. This may be achieved by 
grounding the balance through placement upon an antistatic mat and 
neutralization of the particulate sampling filters prior to weighing using a 
polonium neutraliser or a device of similar effect. Alternatively, nullification 
of static effects may be achieved through equalization of the static charge. 
4.2.2.4. 
Buoyancy correction 
The sample and reference filter weights shall be corrected for their buoyancy 
in air. The buoyancy correction is a function of sampling filter density, air 
density and the density of the balance calibration weight, and does not 
account for the buoyancy of the particulate matter itself. 
If the density of the filter material is not known, the following densities shall 
be used: 
 
(a) 
PTFE coated glass fibre filter: 2,300 kg/m3; 
(b) 
PTFE membrane filter: 2,144 kg/m3; 
(c) 
PTFE membrane filter with polymethylpentene support ring: 
920 kg/m3. 
 
For stainless steel calibration weights, a density of 8,000 kg/m³ shall be used. 
If the material of the calibration weight is different, its density shall be known 
and be used. International Recommendation OIML R 111-1 Edition 2004(E) 
(or equivalent) from International Organization of Legal Metrology on 
calibration weights should be followed. 
 
The following equation shall be used: 



--- PAGE 269 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 269 of 762 
 
𝑃𝑒𝑓= 𝑃𝑒𝑢𝑛𝑐𝑜𝑟𝑟× (
1 −𝜌𝑎
𝜌𝑤
1 −𝜌𝑎
𝜌𝑓
) 
 
where: 
𝑃𝑒𝑓 
is the corrected particulate sample mass, mg; 
𝑃𝑒𝑢𝑛𝑐𝑜𝑟𝑟 is the uncorrected particulate sample mass, mg; 
𝜌𝑎 
is the density of the air, kg/m3; 
𝜌𝑤 
is the density of balance calibration weight, kg/m3; 
𝜌𝑓 
is the density of the particulate sampling filter, kg/m3. 
 
 
 
 
The density of the air 𝜌𝑎shall be calculated using the following equation: 
𝜌𝑎= 𝑝𝑏× 𝑀𝑚𝑖𝑥 
𝑅 × 𝑇𝑎
 
𝑝𝑏 
 is the total atmospheric pressure, kPa; 
𝑇𝑎 
is the air temperature in the balance environment, Kelvin (K); 
𝑀𝑚𝑖𝑥 is the molar mass of air in a balanced environment, 28.836 g mol-1; 
R 
is the molar gas constant, 8.3144 J mol-1 K-1. 
 
 
4.3. 
PN measurement equipment (if PN measurement is required) 
4.3.1. 
Specification 
4.3.1.1. 
System overview 
4.3.1.1.1. 
The particle sampling system shall consist of a probe or sampling point 
extracting a sample from a homogenously mixed flow in a dilution system, a 
volatile particle remover (VPR) upstream of a particle number counter (PNC) 
and suitable transfer tubing. See Figure A5/14. 
4.3.1.1.2. 
It is recommended that a particle size pre-classifier (PCF) (e.g. cyclone, 
impactor, etc.) be located prior to the inlet of the VPR. The PCF 50 per cent 
cut point particle diameter shall be between 2.5 µm and 10 µm at the 
volumetric flow rate selected for particle sampling. The PCF shall allow at 
least 99 per cent of the mass concentration of 1 µm particles entering the PCF 
to pass through the exit of the PCF at the volumetric flow rate selected for 
particle sampling. 
A sample probe acting as an appropriate size-classification device, such as 
that shown in Figure A5/11, is an acceptable alternative to the use of a PCF.  



--- PAGE 270 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 270 of 762 
 
4.3.1.2. 
General requirements 
4.3.1.2.1. 
The particle sampling point shall be located within a dilution system. In the 
case that a double dilution system is used, the particle sampling point shall 
be located within the primary dilution system. 
4.3.1.2.1.1. 
The sampling probe tip or PSP, and the PTT, together comprise the particle 
transfer system (PTS). The PTS conducts the sample from the dilution tunnel 
to the entrance of the VPR. The PTS shall meet the following conditions: 
 
(a) 
The sampling probe shall be installed at least 10 tunnel diameters 
downstream of the exhaust gas inlet, facing upstream into the tunnel 
gas flow with its axis at the tip parallel to that of the dilution tunnel; 
(b) 
The sampling probe shall be upstream of any conditioning device 
(e.g. heat exchanger); 
(c) 
The sampling probe shall be positioned within the dilution tunnel so 
that the sample is taken from a homogeneous diluent/exhaust mixture. 
4.3.1.2.1.2. 
Sample gas drawn through the PTS shall meet the following conditions: 
 
(a) 
In the case that a full flow exhaust dilution system, is used it shall 
have a flow Reynolds number Re lower than 1,700; 
(b) 
In the case that a double dilution system is used, it shall have a flow 
Reynolds number Re lower than 1,700 in the PTT i.e. downstream of 
the sampling probe or point; 
(c) 
Shall have a residence time ≤ 3 seconds. 
4.3.1.2.1.3. 
SPN23: 
Any other sampling configuration for the PTS for which equivalent particle 
penetration at 30 nm can be demonstrated shall be considered acceptable. 
4.3.1.2.1.4. 
The outlet tube (OT), conducting the diluted sample from the VPR to the inlet 
of the PNC, shall have the following properties: 
 
(a) 
An internal diameter ≥ 4mm; 
(b) 
A sample gas flow residence time of ≤ 0.8 seconds. 
4.3.1.2.1.5. 
SPN23: 
Any other sampling configuration for the OT for which equivalent particle 
penetration at 30 nm can be demonstrated shall be considered acceptable. 
4.3.1.2.2. 
The VPR shall include devices for sample dilution and for volatile particle 
removal. 



--- PAGE 271 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 271 of 762 
 
4.3.1.2.3. 
All parts of the dilution system and the sampling system from the exhaust 
pipe up to the PNC, which are in contact with raw and diluted exhaust gas, 
shall be designed to minimize deposition of the particles. All parts shall be 
made of electrically conductive materials that do not react with exhaust gas 
components, and shall be electrically grounded to prevent electrostatic 
effects. 
4.3.1.2.4. 
The particle sampling system shall incorporate good aerosol sampling 
practice that includes the avoidance of sharp bends and abrupt changes in 
cross-section, the use of smooth internal surfaces and the minimization of the 
length of the sampling line. Gradual changes in the cross-section are 
permitted. 
4.3.1.3. 
Specific requirements 
4.3.1.3.1. 
The particle sample shall not pass through a pump before passing through the 
PNC. 
4.3.1.3.2. 
A sample pre-classifier is recommended. 
4.3.1.3.3. 
The sample preconditioning unit shall: 
 
(a) 
Be capable of diluting the sample in one or more stages to 
achieve a particle number concentration below the upper 
threshold of the single particle count mode of the PNC 
(b) 
Have a gas temperature at the inlet to the PNC below the 
maximum allowed inlet temperature specified by the PNC 
manufacturer; 
(c) 
Include an initial heated dilution stage that outputs a sample at a 
temperature of  150 °C and ≤ 350 °C ±10 °C, and dilutes by a 
factor of at least 10; 
(d) 
Control 
heated 
stages 
to 
constant 
nominal 
operating 
temperatures, within the range ≥ 150 °C and ≤ 400 °C ±10 °C; 
(e) 
Provide an indication of whether or not heated stages are at their 
correct operating temperatures; 
 
(f) 
Achieve a solid particle penetration efficiency of at least 
70 per cent for particles of 100 nm electrical mobility diameter; 



--- PAGE 272 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 272 of 762 
 
(g) 
SPN23:  
Achieve a particle concentration reduction factor 𝑓𝑟(𝑑𝑖) for 
particles of 30 nm and 50 nm electrical mobility diameters that 
is no more than 30 per cent and 20 per cent respectively higher, 
and no more than 5 per cent lower than that for particles of 
100 nm electrical mobility diameter for the VPR as a whole; 
The particle concentration reduction factor at each particle size 
𝑓𝑟(𝑑𝑖) shall be calculated using the following equation: 
𝑓𝑟(𝑑𝑖) = 𝑁𝑖𝑛(𝑑𝑖)
𝑁𝑜𝑢𝑡(𝑑𝑖) 
 
where: 
𝑁𝑖𝑛(𝑑𝑖) 
is the upstream particle number concentration for particles of 
diameter 𝑑𝑖; 
𝑁𝑜𝑢𝑡(𝑑𝑖) is the downstream particle number concentration for particles of 
diameter 𝑑𝑖; 
𝑑𝑖 
is the particle electrical mobility diameter (30, 50 or 100 nm). 
 
𝑁𝑖𝑛(𝑑𝑖) and 𝑁𝑜𝑢𝑡(𝑑𝑖) shall be corrected to the same conditions. 
The arithmetic average particle concentration reduction factor at 
a given dilution setting 𝑓𝑟̅ shall be calculated using the following 
equation: 
𝑓𝑟̅ = 𝑓𝑟(30 𝑛𝑚) + 𝑓𝑟(50 𝑛𝑚) + 𝑓𝑟(100 𝑛𝑚)
3
 
It is recommended that the VPR is calibrated and validated as a 
complete unit; 
(h) 
Be designed according to good engineering practice to ensure 
particle concentration reduction factors are stable across a test; 
 
(i) 
SPN23: 
Achieve more than 99.0 per cent vaporization of 30 nm 
tetracontane 
(CH3(CH2)38CH3) 
particles, 
with 
an 
inlet 
concentration of ≥ 10,000 per cm³, by means of heating and 
reduction of partial pressures of the tetracontane. 
 



--- PAGE 273 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 273 of 762 
 
4.3.1.3.3.1 
The solid particle penetration P_r (d_i ) at a particle size, d_i, shall be 
calculated using the following equation: 
𝑃𝑟(𝑑𝑖) = DF⋅𝑁𝑜𝑢𝑡(𝑑𝑖) 𝑁𝑖𝑛(𝑑𝑖)
⁄
 
Where 
Nin 
(di) 
is the upstream particle number concentration for particles of 
diameter di; 
Nout 
(di ) 
is the downstream particle number concentration for particles of 
diameter di; 
di 
is the particle electrical mobility diameter 
DF 
is the dilution factor between measurement positions of Nin (di) and 
Nout (di) determined either with trace gases, or flow measurements. 
 
 
4.3.1.3.4. 
The PNC shall: 
(a) 
Operate under full flow operating conditions; 
(b) 
Have a counting accuracy of ±10 per cent across the range 1 per cm³ 
to the upper threshold of the single particle count mode of the PNC 
against a suitable traceable standard. At concentrations below 
100 per cm³, measurements averaged over extended sampling 
periods may be required to demonstrate the accuracy of the PNC with 
a high degree of statistical confidence; 
(c) 
Have a resolution of at least 0.1 particles per cm³ at concentrations 
below 100 per cm³; 
(d) 
Have a linear response to particle number concentrations over the full 
measurement  
range in single particle count mode; 
(e) 
Have a data reporting frequency equal to or greater than a frequency 
of 0.5 Hz; 
(f) 
Have a t90 response time over the measured concentration range of 
less than 5 seconds; 
(g) 
Introduce a correction with an internal calibration factor as 
determined in paragraph 5.7.1.3. of this annex. 
(h) 
Have counting efficiencies at the different particle sizes as specified 
in Table A5/2. 
(i) 
SPN23: 
The PNC calibration factor from the linearity calibration against a 
traceable reference shall be applied to determine PNC counting 
efficiency. The counting efficiency shall be reported including the 
calibration factor from linearity calibration against a traceable 
reference. 
(j) 
If the PNC applies some other working liquid besides n-butyl alcohol 
or isopropyl alcohol, the counting efficiency of the PNC shall be 
demonstrated with 4cSt polyalphaolefin and soot-like particles. 
 



--- PAGE 274 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 274 of 762 
 
Table A5/2 
PNC counting efficiency 
Particle size electrical mobility 
diameter (nm) 
PNC counting efficiency (per cent) 
23  
50 ±12 
41 
> 90 
4.3.1.3.5. 
If the PNC makes use of a working liquid, it shall be replaced at the 
frequency specified by the instrument manufacturer. 
4.3.1.3.6. 
Where not held at a known constant level at the point at which PNC flow 
rate is controlled, the pressure and/or temperature at the PNC inlet shall be 
measured for the purposes of correcting particle number concentration 
measurements to standard conditions. 
4.3.1.3.7. 
The sum of the residence time of the PTS, VPR and OT plus the t90 response 
time of the PNC shall be no greater than 20 seconds. 
4.3.1.4. 
Recommended system description 
The following paragraph contains the recommended practice for 
measurement of PN. However, systems meeting the performance 
specifications in paragraphs 4.3.1.2. and 4.3.1.3. of this annex are 
acceptable. See Figure A5/14  
Figure A5/14 
A recommended particle sampling system 
 
4.3.1.4.1. 
Sampling system description 
4.3.1.4.1.1.  
The particle sampling system shall consist of a sampling probe tip or particle 
sampling point in the dilution system, a PTT, a PCF, and a VPR, upstream 
of the PNC unit. 



--- PAGE 275 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 275 of 762 
 
4.3.1.4.1.2. 
The VPR shall include devices for sample dilution (particle number diluters: 
PND1 and PND2) and particle evaporation (evaporation tube, ET). 
4.3.1.4.1.3. 
SPN23: 
The evaporation tube, ET, may be catalytically active. 
4.3.1.4.1.4. 
The sampling probe or sampling point for the test gas flow shall be arranged 
within the dilution tunnel so that a representative sample gas flow is taken 
from a homogeneous diluent/exhaust mixture. 
5.0 
Calibration intervals and procedures 
5.1. 
Calibration intervals 
All instruments in Table A5/3 shall be calibrated at/after major maintenance 
intervals. 
 
Table A5/3 
Instrument calibration intervals 
Instrument checks 
Interval 
Criterion 
Gas analyser linearization (calibration) Every 6 months 
±2 per cent of reading 
Mid-span 
Every 6 months 
±2 per cent 
CO NDIR: 
CO2/H2O interference  
Monthly 
-1 to 3 ppm 
NOx converter check 
Monthly 
> 95 per cent 
CH4 cutter check 
Yearly 
98 per cent of ethane 
FID CH4 response 
Yearly 
See paragraph 5.4.3. of this 
annex. 
FID air/fuel flow 
At major 
maintenance 
According to the instrument 
manufacturer. 
NO/NO2 NDUV: 
H2O, HC interference 
At major 
maintenance 
According to the instrument 
manufacturer. 
Laser infrared spectrometers 
(modulated high resolution narrow band 
infrared analysers): interference check 
Yearly 
According to the instrument 
manufacturer. 
QCL 
Yearly 
According to the instrument 
manufacturer. 
GC methods 
See paragraph 7.2. 
of this annex. 
See paragraph 7.2. of this 
annex. 
LC methods 
Yearly 
According to the instrument 
manufacturer. 



--- PAGE 276 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 276 of 762 
 
Photoacoustics 
Yearly 
According to the instrument 
manufacturer. 
FTIR: linearity verification 
Within 370 days 
before testing 
See paragraph 7.1. of this 
annex. 
Microgram balance linearity  
Yearly 
See paragraph 4.2.2.2. of 
this annex. 
PNC (particle number counter) (if 
applicable) 
See paragraph 
5.7.1.1. of this 
annex 
See paragraph 5.7.1.3. of 
this annex. 
VPR (volatile particle remover) 
See paragraph 
5.7.2.1. of this 
annex. 
See paragraph 5.7.2. of this 
annex. 
 
Table A5/4 
Constant volume sampler (CVS) calibration intervals 
CVS 
Interval 
Criterion 
CVS flow 
After overhaul 
±2 per cent 
Temperature sensor 
Yearly 
±1 °C 
Pressure sensor 
Yearly 
±0.4 kPa 
Injection check 
Weekly 
±2 per cent 
 
Table A5/5 
Environmental data calibration intervals 
Climate 
Interval 
Criterion 
Temperature 
Yearly 
±1 °C 
Moisture dew 
Yearly 
±5 per cent RH 
Ambient pressure 
Yearly 
±0.4 kPa 
Cooling fan 
After overhaul 
According to paragraph 
1.1.1. of this annex. 
 
5.2. 
Analyser calibration procedures 
5.2.1. 
Each analyser shall be calibrated as specified by the instrument manufacturer 
or at least as often as specified in Table A5/3. 
5.2.2. 
Each normally used operating range shall be linearized by the following 
procedure: 
 



--- PAGE 277 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 277 of 762 
 
5.2.2.1. 
The analyser linearization curve shall be established by at least five 
calibration points spaced as uniformly as possible. The nominal 
concentration of the calibration gas of the highest concentration shall be not 
less than 80 per cent of the full scale. 
5.2.2.2. 
The calibration gas concentration required may be obtained by means of a 
gas divider, diluting with purified N2 or with purified synthetic air. 
5.2.2.3. 
The linearization curve shall be calculated by the least squares method. If the 
resulting polynomial degree is greater than 3, the number of calibration 
points shall be at least equal to this polynomial degree plus 2. 
5.2.2.4. 
The linearization curve shall not differ by more than ±2 per cent from the 
nominal value of each calibration gas. 
5.2.2.5. 
From the trace of the linearization curve and the linearization points it is 
possible to verify that the calibration has been carried out correctly. The 
different characteristic parameters of the analyser shall be indicated, 
particularly: 
(a) 
Analyser and gas component; 
(b) 
Range; 
(c) 
Date of linearisation. 
5.2.2.6. 
If the Test Agency is satisfied that alternative technologies (e.g. computer, 
electronically controlled range switch, etc.) give equivalent accuracy, these 
alternatives may be used. 
5.3. 
Analyser zero and calibration verification procedure 
5.3.1. 
Each normally used operating range shall be checked prior to each analysis 
in accordance with paragraphs 5.3.1.1. and 5.3.1.2. of this annex 
5.3.1.1. 
The calibration shall be checked by use of a zero gas and by use of a 
calibration gas according to paragraph 2.14.2.3. of Annex B6. 
5.3.1.2. 
After testing, zero gas and the same calibration gas shall be used for re-
checking according to paragraph 2.14.2.4. of Annex B6. 
5.4. 
FID hydrocarbon response check procedure 
5.4.1. 
Detector response optimization 
The FID shall be adjusted as specified by the instrument manufacturer. 
Propane in air shall be used on the most common operating range. 
 



--- PAGE 278 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 278 of 762 
 
5.4.2. 
Calibration of the HC analyser 
5.4.2.1. 
The analyser shall be calibrated using propane in air and purified synthetic air. 
5.4.2.2. 
A calibration curve as described in paragraph 5.2.2. of this annex shall be 
established. 
5.4.3. 
Response factors of different hydrocarbons and recommended limits 
5.4.3.1. 
The response factor, Rf, for a particular hydrocarbon compound is the ratio 
of the FID C1 reading to the gas cylinder concentration, expressed as ppm C1. 
The concentration of the test gas shall be at a level to give a response of 
approximately 80 per cent of full-scale deflection for the operating range. 
The concentration shall be known to an accuracy of ±2 per cent in reference 
to a gravimetric standard expressed in volume. In addition, the gas cylinder 
shall be preconditioned for 24 hours at a temperature between 20 and 30 °C.  
5.4.3.2. 
The methane factor RfCH4 shall be measured and determined when 
introducing an analyser into service, and yearly thereafter or after major 
maintenance intervals, whichever comes first.  
The propylene response factor RfC3H6 and the toluene response factor RfC7H8 
shall be measured when introducing an analyser into service. It is 
recommended that they be measured at or after major maintenance which 
might possibly affect the response factors. 
The test gases to be used and the recommended response factors are: 
Methane and purified air: 
0.95 <  𝑅𝑓𝐶𝐻4 <  1.15 
or 1.00 < Rf < 1.05 for NG/biomethane fuelled vehicles  
Propylene and purified air: 0.85 <  𝑅𝑓𝐶3𝐻6 <  1.10 
Toluene and purified air: 
0.85 <  𝑅𝑓𝐶7𝐻8 <  1.10 
The factors are relative to an 𝑅𝑓 of 1.00 for propane and purified air. 
5.5. 
NOx converter efficiency test procedure 
5.5.1. 
Using the test set up as shown in Figure A5/15 and the procedure described 
below, the efficiency of converters for the conversion of NO2 into NO shall 
be tested by means of an ozonator as follows: 
5.5.1.1. 
The analyser shall be calibrated in the most common operating range 
following the manufacturer's specifications using zero and calibration gas 
(the NO content of which shall amount to approximately 80 per cent of the 
operating range and the NO2 concentration of the gas mixture shall be less 
than 5 per cent of the NO concentration). The NOx analyser shall be in the 
NO mode so that the calibration gas does not pass through the converter. The 
indicated concentration shall be recorded. 



--- PAGE 279 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 279 of 762 
 
5.5.1.2. 
Via a T-fitting, oxygen or synthetic air shall be added continuously to the 
calibration gas flow until the concentration indicated is approximately 
10 per cent less than the indicated calibration concentration given in 
paragraph 5.5.1.1. of this annex. The indicated concentration (c) shall be 
recorded. The ozonator shall be kept deactivated throughout this process. 
5.5.1.3. 
The ozonator shall now be activated to generate enough ozone to bring the 
NO concentration down to 20 per cent (minimum 10 per cent) of the 
calibration concentration given in paragraph 5.5.1.1. of this annex. The 
indicated concentration (d) shall be recorded. 
5.5.1.4. 
The NOx analyser shall be subsequently switched to the NOx mode, whereby 
the gas mixture (consisting of NO, NO2, O2 and N2) now passes through the 
converter. The indicated concentration (a) shall be recorded. 
5.5.1.5. 
The ozonator shall now be deactivated. The mixture of gases described in 
paragraph 5.5.1.2. of this annex shall pass through the converter into the 
detector. The indicated concentration (b) shall be recorded. 
Figure A5/15 
NOx converter efficiency test configuration 
 
5.5.1.6. 
With the ozonator deactivated, the flow of oxygen or synthetic air shall be 
shut off. The NO2 reading of the analyser shall then be no more than 
5 per cent above the figure given in paragraph 5.5.1.1. of this annex. 



--- PAGE 280 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 280 of 762 
 
5.5.1.7. 
The per cent efficiency of the NOx converter shall be calculated using the 
concentrations a, b, c and d determined in paragraphs 5.5.1.2. to 5.5.1.5. 
inclusive of this annex using the following equation: 
𝐸𝑓𝑓𝑖𝑐𝑖𝑒𝑛𝑐𝑦 = (1 + 𝑎−𝑏
𝑐−𝑑) × 100  
The efficiency of the converter shall not be less than 95 per cent. The 
efficiency of the converter shall be tested in the frequency defined in 
Table A5/3. 
5.6. 
Calibration of the microgram balance 
The calibration of the microgram balance used for particulate sampling filter 
weighing shall be traceable to a national or international standard. The 
balance shall comply with the linearity requirements given in 
paragraph 4.2.2.2. of this annex. The linearity verification shall be 
performed at least every 12 months or whenever a system repair or change 
is made that could influence the calibration. 
5.7. 
Calibration and validation of the particle sampling system  
SPN23: 
Examples of calibration/validation methods are available at: 
 
http://www.unece.org/trans/main/wp29/wp29wgs/wp29grpe/pmpFCP.html 
5.7.1. 
Calibration of the PNC 
5.7.1.1. 
The Test Agency shall ensure the existence of a calibration certificate for the 
PNC demonstrating compliance with a traceable standard within a    13-
month period prior to the emissions test. Between calibrations either the 
counting efficiency of the PNC shall be monitored for deterioration or the 
PNC wick shall be routinely changed every 6 months. See Figures A5/16 
and A5/17. PNC counting efficiency may be monitored against a reference 
PNC or against at least two other measurement PNCs. If the PNC reports 
particle number concentrations within ±10 per cent of the arithmetic average 
of the concentrations from the reference PNC, or a group of two or more 
PNCs, the PNC shall subsequently be considered stable, otherwise 
maintenance of the PNC is required. Where the PNC is monitored against 
two or more other measurement PNCs, it is permitted to use a reference 
vehicle running sequentially in different test cells each with its own PNC. 
 
 



--- PAGE 281 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 281 of 762 
 
Figure A5/16 
Nominal PNC annual sequence 
 
 
Figure A5/17 
Extended PNC annual sequence (in the case that a full PNC calibration 
is delayed) 
 
 
5.7.1.2. 
The PNC shall also be recalibrated and a new calibration certificate issued 
following any major maintenance. 
5.7.1.3. 
Calibration shall be undertaken according to ISO 27891:2015 and traceable 
to a national or international standard calibration method by comparing the 
response of the PNC under calibration with that of: 
(a) 
A calibrated aerosol electrometer when simultaneously sampling 
electrostatically classified calibration particles; or 
(b) 
SPN23: 
A second full flow PNC with counting efficiency above 90 per cent for 
23 nm equivalent electrical mobility diameter particles that has been 
calibrated by the method described above. The second PNC counting 
efficiency shall be taken into account in the calibration. 
5.7.1.3.1. 
For the requirements of paragraph 5.7.1.3. (a) and 5.7.1.3.(b), calibration 
shall be undertaken using at least six standard concentrations across the 
PNC’s measurement range. These standard concentrations shall be as 
uniformly spaced as possible between the standard concentration of 2,000 
particles per cm³ or below and the maximum of the PNC’s range in single 
particle count mode., 
5.7.1.3.2. 
Reserved 
 
 



--- PAGE 282 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 282 of 762 
 
5.7.1.3.3. 
For the requirements of paragraphs 5.7.1.3.(a) and 5.7.1.3.(b), the selected 
points shall include a nominal zero concentration point produced by 
attaching HEPA filters of at least Class H13 of EN 1822:2008, or equivalent 
performance, to the inlet of each instrument. The gradient from a linear least 
squares regression of the two data sets shall be calculated and recorded. A 
calibration factor equal to the reciprocal of the gradient shall be applied to 
the PNC under calibration. Linearity of response is calculated as the square 
of the Pearson product moment correlation coefficient (r) of the two data sets 
and shall be equal to or greater than 0.97. In calculating both the gradient 
and r2, the linear regression shall be forced through the origin (zero 
concentration on both instruments). The calibration factor shall be between 
0.9 and 1.1 or otherwise the PNC shall be rejected. Each concentration 
measured with the PNC under calibration, shall be within ±5 per cent of the 
measured reference concentration multiplied with the gradient, with the 
exception of the zero point, otherwise the PNC under calibration shall be 
rejected. 
5.7.1.4. 
SPN23:  
Calibration shall also include a check, according to the requirements of 
paragraph 4.3.1.3.4.(h) of this annex, on the PNC’s detection efficiency with 
particles of 23 nm electrical mobility diameter. A check of the counting 
efficiency with 41 nm particles is not required. 
5.7.2. 
Calibration/validation of the VPR 
5.7.2.1. 
SPN23:  
Calibration of the VPR’s particle concentration reduction factors across its 
full range of dilution settings, at the instrument’s fixed nominal operating 
temperatures, shall be required when the unit is new and following any major 
maintenance. The periodic validation requirement for the VPR’s particle 
concentration reduction factor is limited to a check at a single setting, typical 
of that used for measurement on particulate filter-equipped vehicles. The 
Test Agency shall ensure the existence of a calibration or validation 
certificate for the VPR within a 6-month period prior to the emissions test. 
If the VPR incorporates temperature monitoring alarms, a 13-month 
validation interval is permitted. 
It is recommended that the VPR is calibrated and validated as a complete 
unit. 
The VPR shall be characterised for particle concentration reduction factor with 
solid particles of 30, 50 and 100 nm electrical mobility diameter. Particle 
concentration reduction factors 𝑓𝑟(𝑑) for particles of 30 nm and 50 nm 
electrical mobility diameters shall be no more than 30 per cent and 20 per cent 
higher respectively, and no more than 5 per cent lower than that for particles 
of 100 nm electrical mobility diameter. For the purposes of validation, the 
arithmetic average of the particle concentration reduction factor calculated for 
particles of 30 nm, 50 nm and 100 nm electrical mobility diameters shall be 
within ±10 per cent of the arithmetic average particle concentration reduction 
factor 𝑓𝑟̅ determined during the primary calibration of the VPR. 



--- PAGE 283 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 283 of 762 
 
5.7.2.2. 
The test aerosol for these measurements shall be solid particles of 30, 50 and 
100 nm electrical mobility diameter and a minimum concentration of 5,000 
particles per cm³ at the VPR inlet. As an option, a polydisperse aerosol with 
an electrical mobility median diameter of 50 nm may be used for validation. 
The test aerosol shall be thermally stable at the VPR operating temperatures. 
Particle number concentrations shall be measured upstream and downstream 
of the components. 
The particle concentration reduction factor for each monodisperse particle 
size, 𝑓𝑟(𝑑𝑖), shall be calculated using the following equation: 
𝑓𝑟(𝑑𝑖) = 𝑁𝑖𝑛(𝑑𝑖)
𝑁𝑜𝑢𝑡(𝑑𝑖) 
where: 
𝑁𝑖𝑛(𝑑𝑖) 
is the upstream particle number concentration for particles of 
diameter 𝑑𝑖; 
𝑁𝑜𝑢𝑡(𝑑𝑖) 
is the downstream particle number concentration for particles 
of diameter 𝑑𝑖; 
𝑑𝑖 
is the particle electrical mobility diameter (30, 50 or 100 nm). 
 
𝑁𝑖𝑛(𝑑𝑖) and 𝑁𝑜𝑢𝑡(𝑑𝑖) shall be corrected to the same conditions. 
The arithmetic average particle concentration reduction factor 𝑓𝑟̅ at a given 
dilution setting shall be calculated using the following equation: 
𝑓𝑟̅ = 𝑓𝑟(30𝑛𝑚) + 𝑓𝑟(50𝑛𝑚) + 𝑓𝑟(100𝑛𝑚)
3
 
Where a polydisperse 50 nm aerosol is used for validation, the arithmetic 
average particle concentration reduction factor 𝑓𝑣̅ at the dilution setting used 
for validation shall be calculated using the following equation: 
𝑓𝑣̅ = 𝑁𝑖𝑛
𝑁𝑜𝑢𝑡
 
where: 
𝑁𝑖𝑛 is the upstream particle number concentration; 
𝑁𝑜𝑢𝑡is the downstream particle number concentration. 
 
 



--- PAGE 284 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 284 of 762 
 
5.7.2.3. 
SPN23:  
The VPR shall demonstrate greater than 99.0 per cent removal of 
tetracontane (CH3(CH2)38CH3) particles of at least 30 nm electrical mobility 
diameter with an inlet concentration ≥ 10,000 per cm³ when operated at its 
minimum dilution setting and manufacturer's recommended operating 
temperature. 
5.7.2.4 
The instrument manufacturer shall provide the maintenance or replacement 
interval that ensures that the removal efficiency of the VPR does not drop 
below the technical requirements. If such information is not provided, the 
volatile removal efficiency shall be checked yearly for each instrument. 
5.7.2.5 
The instrument manufacturer shall prove the solid particle penetration Pr (di) 
by testing one unit for each PN-system model. A PN-system model here 
covers all PN-systems with the same hardware, i.e. same geometry, conduit 
materials, flows and temperature profiles in the aerosol path. Pr (di) at a 
particle size, di, shall be calculated using the following equation: 
Pr (di)" = DF⋅(Nout (di ))⁄(Nin (di ) ) 
Where 
Nin (di) 
 
Nout (di ) is the downstream particle number concentration for particles of 
diameter di;  
di 
is the particle electrical mobility diameter 
DF 
is the dilution factor between measurement positions of Nin (di ) 
and Nout (di ) determined either with trace gases, or flow 
measurements. 
 
5.7.3. 
PN measurement system check procedures 
On a monthly basis, the flow into the PNC shall have a measured value within 
5 per cent of the PNC nominal flow rate when checked with a calibrated flow 
meter.  
5.8. 
Accuracy of the mixing device 
In the case that a gas divider is used to perform the calibrations as defined in 
paragraph 5.2. of this annex, the accuracy of the mixing device shall be such 
that the concentrations of the diluted calibration gases may be determined to 
within ±2 per cent. A calibration curve shall be verified by a mid-span check 
as described in paragraph 5.3. of this annex. A calibration gas with a 
concentration below 50 per cent of the analyser range shall be within 
2 per cent of its certified concentration. 
6.0 
Reference gases 
6.1. 
Pure gases 
6.1.1. 
All values in ppm mean volume-ppm (vpm) 
6.1.2. 
The following pure gases shall be available, if necessary, for calibration and 
operation: 



--- PAGE 285 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 285 of 762 
 
6.1.2.1. 
Nitrogen:  
Purity: 
≤1 ppm C1, 
≤1 ppm 
CO, 
≤400 ppm CO2, 
≤0.1 ppm NO, 
≤0.1 ppm N2O, ≤0.1 ppm NH3. 
6.1.2.2. 
Synthetic air:  
Purity: ≤1 ppm C1, ≤1 ppm CO, ≤400 ppm CO2, ≤0.1 ppm NO, ≤0.1 ppm 
NO2; oxygen content between 18 and 21 per cent volume. 
6.1.2.3 
Oxygen:  
Purity: > 99.5 per cent vol. O2. 
6.1.2.4. 
Hydrogen (and mixture containing helium or nitrogen): 
Purity: ≤1 ppm C1, ≤400 ppm CO2; hydrogen content between 39 and 41 per 
cent volume. 
6.1.2.5. 
Carbon monoxide:  
Minimum purity 99.5 per cent. 
6.1.2.6. 
Propane:  
Minimum purity 99.5 per cent. 
6.2. 
Calibration gases 
The true concentration of a calibration gas shall be within 1 per cent of the 
stated value or as given below, and shall be traceable to national or 
international standards. 
Mixtures of gases having the following compositions shall be available with 
bulk gas specifications according to paragraphs 6.1.2.1. or 6.1.2.2. of this 
annex: 
(a) 
C3H8 in synthetic air (see paragraph 6.1.2.2. of this annex); 
(b) 
CO in nitrogen; 
(c) 
CO2 in nitrogen; 
(d) 
CH4 in synthetic air; 
(e) 
NO in nitrogen (the amount of NO2 contained in this calibration gas 
shall not exceed 5 per cent of the NO content). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 



--- PAGE 286 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 286 of 762 
 
ANNEX B6 
Type I Test Procedures and Test Conditions 
1.0 
 Description of tests 
1.1 
The Type I test is used to verify the emissions of gaseous compounds, 
particulate matter, particle number, CO2 mass emission, fuel consumption, 
electric energy consumption and electric ranges over the applicable WLTP 
test cycle. 
1.1.1 
The tests shall be carried out according to the method described in 
paragraph 2. of this annex or paragraph 3. of Annex B8 for pure electric, 
hybrid electric and compressed hydrogen fuel cell hybrid vehicles. Exhaust 
gases, particulate matter and particle number shall be sampled and analysed 
by the prescribed methods. 
1.1.2 
When the reference fuel to be used is LPG or NG/biomethane, the following 
provisions shall apply additionally. 
1.1.2.1 
Exhaust emissions approval of a parent vehicle 
1.1.2.1.1 
The parent vehicle should demonstrate its capability to adapt to any fuel 
composition that may occur across the market. In the case of LPG there are 
variations in C3/C4 composition. In the case of NG/biomethane there are 
generally two types of fuel, high calorific fuel (H-gas) and low calorific fuel 
(Lgas), but with a significant spread within both ranges; they differ 
significantly in Wobbe index. These variations are reflected in the reference 
fuels. 
1.1.2.1.2 
In the case of vehicles fuelled by LPG, NG/biomethane, the parent vehicle(s) 
shall be tested in the Type I test on the two extreme reference fuels of Annex 
B3. In the case of NG/biomethane, if the transition from one fuel to another is 
in practice aided through the use of a switch, this switch shall not be used 
during type approval. In such a case on the manufacturer's request and with 
the agreement of the Test Agency the pre-conditioning cycle referred in 
paragraph 2.6. of this annex may be extended. 
1.1.2.1.3 
The vehicle is considered to conform if, under the tests and reference fuels 
mentioned in paragraph 1.1.2.1.2. of this annex, the vehicle complies with the 
emission limits 
1.1.2.1.4 
In the case of vehicles fuelled by LPG or NG/biomethane, the ratio of 
emission results "r" shall be determined for each pollutant as follows: 
 
Type(s) of fuel 
Reference fuels 
Calculation of "r" 
LPG and petrol or 
LPG only 
Fuel A 
𝑟= 𝐵
𝐴 
Fuel B 



--- PAGE 287 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 287 of 762 
 
1.1.2.2 
 Exhaust emissions approval of a member of the family: 
 
For the type approval of a mono fuel gas vehicle and bi fuel gas vehicles 
operating in gas mode, fuelled by LPG or NG/Biomethane, as a member of 
the family, a Type I test shall be performed with one gas reference fuel. This 
reference fuel may be either of the gas reference fuels. The vehicle is 
considered to comply if the following requirements are met: 
1.1.2.2.1 
The vehicle complies with the definition of a family member as defined in 
paragraph 6.3.6.3. of this Regulation; 
1.1.2.2.2 
If the test fuel is reference fuel A for LPG or G20 for NG/biomethane, the 
emission result shall be multiplied by the relevant factor "r" calculated in 
paragraph 1.1.2.1.4. of this annex if r > 1; if r < 1, no correction is needed; 
1.1.2.2.3 
If the test fuel is reference fuel B for LPG or G25 for NG/biomethane, the 
emission result shall be divided by the relevant factor "r" calculated in 
paragraph 1.1.2.1.4. of this annex if r < 1; if r > 1, no correction is needed; 
1.1.2.2.4 
On the manufacturer's request, the Type I test may be performed on both 
reference fuels, so that no correction is needed; 
1.1.2.2.5 
The vehicle shall comply with the emission limits valid for the relevant 
category for both measured and calculated emissions; 
1.1.2.2.6 
If repeated tests are made on the same engine the results on reference fuel G20, 
or A, and those on reference fuel G25, or B, shall first be averaged; the "r" 
factor shall then be calculated from these averaged results; 
1.1.2.2.7 
Without prejudice to paragraph 2.6.4.1.2. of this annex, during the Type I test 
it is permissible to use petrol only or simultaneously with gas when operating 
in gas mode provided that the energy consumption of gas is higher than 80 per 
cent of the total amount of energy consumed during the test. This percentage 
shall be calculated in accordance with the method set out in Appendix 3 to 
this annex. 
1.2 
The number of tests shall be determined according to the flowchart in 
Figure A6/1. The limit value is the maximum allowed value for the respective 
criteria emission as per the Gazette Notification 
1.2.1 
The flowchart in Figure A6/1 shall be applicable only to the whole applicable 
WLTP test cycle and not to single phases. 
1.2.2 
The test results shall be the values after the applicable adjustments specified 
in the post-processing tables in Annex B7 and Annex B8 are applied. 
1.2.3 
Determination of total cycle values 
NG/biomethane 
and 
petrol 
or 
NG/biomethane only 
Fuel G20 
𝑟= 𝐺25
𝐺20
 
Fuel G25 



--- PAGE 288 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 288 of 762 
 
1.2.3.1 
If during any of the tests a criteria emissions limit is exceeded, the vehicle 
shall be rejected. 
1.2.3.2 
Depending on the vehicle type, the manufacturer shall declare as applicable 
the total cycle values of the CO2 mass emission, the electric energy 
consumption, fuel consumption, fuel efficiency, as well as PER and AER 
according to Table A6/1 
1.2.3.3 
The declared value of electric energy consumption for OVC-HEVs under 
charge-depleting operating condition shall not be determined according to 
Figure A6/1. It shall be taken as the certification value if the declared CO2 
value is accepted as the approval value. If that is not the case, the measured 
value of electric energy consumption shall be taken as the certification value. 
Evidence of a correlation between declared CO2 mass emission and electric 
energy consumption shall be submitted to the Test Agency in advance, if 
applicable. 
1.2.3.4 
If after the first test all criteria in row 1 of the applicable Table A6/2 are 
fulfilled, all values declared by the manufacturer shall be accepted as the 
certification value. If any one of the criteria in row 1 of the applicable 
Table A6/2 is not fulfilled, a second test shall be performed with the same 
vehicle. 
1.2.3.5 
After the second test, the arithmetic average results of the two tests shall be 
calculated. If all criteria in row 2 of the applicable Table A6/2 are fulfilled by 
these arithmetic average results, all values declared by the manufacturer shall 
be accepted as the certification value. If any one of the criteria in row 2 of the 
applicable Table A6/2 is not fulfilled, a third test shall be performed with the 
same vehicle. 
1.2.3.6 
After the third test, the arithmetic average results of the three tests shall be 
calculated. For all parameters which fulfil the corresponding criterion in row 3 
of the applicable Table A6/2, the declared value shall be taken as the 
certification value. For any parameter which does not fulfil the corresponding 
criterion in row 3 of the applicable Table A6/2, the arithmetic average result 
shall be taken as the type approval value. 
1.2.3.7 
In the case that any one of the criterion of the applicable Table A6/2 is not 
fulfilled after the first or second test, at the request of the manufacturer and 
with the approval of the Test Agency the values may be re-declared as higher 
values for emissions or consumption, or as lower values for electric ranges, in 
order to reduce the required number of tests for type approval. 
1.2.3.8 
Determination of the acceptance values dCO21, dCO22 and dCO23 
1.2.3.8.1 
Additional to the requirement of paragraph 1.2.3.8.2., the following 
acceptance values for dCO21, dCO22 and dCO23 shall be used in relation to 
the criteria for the number of tests in Table A6/2: 
 
dCO21 = 1.020 



--- PAGE 289 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 289 of 762 
 
dCO22 = 1.020 
dCO23 = 1.020 
1.2.3.8.2 
If the charge depleting Type I test for OVC-HEVs consists of two or more 
applicable WLTP test cycles and the dCO2x value is below 1.0, the dCO2x 
value shall be replaced by 1.0. 
1.2.3.9 
In the case that a test result or an average of test results was taken and 
confirmed as the certification value, this result shall be referred to as the 
“declared value” for further calculations. 
 
 
 
Table A6/1 
Applicable rules for a manufacturer’s declared values (total cycle values)(a) (as 
applicable) 
Powertrain 
MCO2 b 
(g/km) 
FC  (kg/100 km) 
Electric 
energy 
consumptionc
(Wh/km) 
All electric range /  
Pure Electric Range 
c(km) 
Vehicles tested 
according to 
Annex 6 (pure 
ICE) 
MCO2 
Paragraph 
3. of 
Annex 7. 
FC Paragraph 
1.4. of Annex 7. 
- 
- 
NOVC-FCHV 
- 
FCCS  
Paragraph 
4.2.1.2.1.  
of Annex 8. 
- 
- 
OVC-
FCH
V 
CD 
- 
FC,CD 
ECAC,CD 
AER 
CS 
- 
FCCS 
- 
- 
NOVC-HEV 
MCO2,CS 
Paragraph 
4.1.1.  
of Annex 
8. 
- 
- 
- 
OVC-
HEV 
CD 
MCO2,CD 
Paragraph 
4.1.2.  
of Annex 
8. 
- 
 
AER 
Paragraph 4.4.1.1.  
of Annex 8. 



--- PAGE 290 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 290 of 762 
 
Table A6/1 
Applicable rules for a manufacturer’s declared values (total cycle values)(a) (as 
applicable) 
Powertrain 
MCO2 b 
(g/km) 
FC  (kg/100 km) 
Electric 
energy 
consumptionc
(Wh/km) 
All electric range /  
Pure Electric Range 
c(km) 
ECAC,CD 
Paragraph 
4.3.1. of 
Annex 8. 
 
CS 
MCO2,CS 
Paragraph 
4.1.1.  
of Annex 
8. 
- 
- 
- 
PEV 
- 
- 
ECWLTC 
Paragraph 
4.3.4.2. of 
Annex 8. 
PERWLTC 
Paragraph 4.4.2. of 
Annex 8. 
(a)  The declared value shall be the value to which the necessary corrections, are  applied 
(i.e. Ki correction)s 
(b)  Rounding to 2 places of decimal according to paragraph 6.1.8. of this Regulation 
(c)  Rounding to one place of decimal according to paragraph 6.1.8. of this 
Regulation 
Figure A6/1 
Flowchart for the number of Type I tests 



--- PAGE 291 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 291 of 762 
 
 
Table A6/2 
Criteria for number of tests 
For pure ICE vehicles, NOVC-HEVs and OVC-HEVs charge-sustaining 
Type I test. (as applicable). 
 
Test 
Judgement 
parameter 
Criteria 
emission 
MCO2 
Row 1 
First test 
First 
test 
results 
≤ 
Regulation 
limit × 0.9 
≤ Declared value 
× 1.02 
Row 2 
Second test 
Arithmetic 
average of 
the 
first 
and second 
test results 
≤ 
Regulation 
limit × 1.0a 
≤ Declared value 
× 1.02 
Row 3 
Third test 
Arithmetic 
average of 
three 
test 
results 
≤ 
Regulation 
limit × 1.0a 
≤ Declared value 
× 1.02 
(a) Each test result shall fulfil the regulation limit. 
For OVC-HEVs charge-depleting Type I test. 
 
 



--- PAGE 292 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 292 of 762 
 
 
Test 
Judgement 
parameter 
Criteria 
emissions 
MCO2,CD 
AER 
Row 1 
First test 
First 
test 
results 
≤ 
Regulation 
limit × 0.9a 
≤ 
Declared 
value 
× 
1.02 
≥ 
Declared 
value × 1.0 
Row 2 
Second 
test 
Arithmetic 
average 
of 
the first and 
second test 
results 
≤ 
Regulation 
limit × 1.0b 
≤ 
Declared 
value 
× 
1.02 
≥ 
Declared 
value × 1.0 
Row 3 
Third test Arithmetic 
average 
of 
three 
test 
results 
≤ 
Regulation 
limit × 1.0b 
≤ 
Declared 
value 
× 
1.02 
≥ 
Declared 
value × 1.0 
 
Test 
Judgement 
parameter 
Criteria 
emissions 
MCO2,CD 
AER 
(a)   "0.9" shall be replaced by “1.0” for charge-depleting Type I test for OVC-HEVs, 
only if the charge-depleting test contains two or more applicable WLTC cycles. 
(b)   Each test result shall fulfil the regulation limit. 
For PEVs 
 
Test 
Judgement 
parameter 
Electric 
energy 
consumption 
PER 
Row 1 
First test 
First 
test 
results 
≤ 
Declared 
value × 1.0 
≥ Declared value 
× 1.0 
Row 2 
Second test 
Arithmetic 
average 
of 
the first and 
second 
test 
results 
≤ 
Declared 
value × 1.0 
≥ Declared value 
× 1.0 
Row 3 
Third test 
Arithmetic 
average 
of 
three 
test 
results 
≤ 
Declared 
value × 1.0 
≥ Declared value 
× 1.0 
 For OVC-FCHVs charge-depleting cop test. 



--- PAGE 293 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 293 of 762 
 
 
 
Test 
Judgement 
parameter 
FC,CD 
ECAC,CD 
AER 
Row 1 First 
test 
First test results 
≤ Declared 
value x 1.0 
≤ Declared value 
x 1.0 
≥ Declared value 
× 1.0 
Row 2 Second 
test 
Arithmetic 
average of the 
first and second 
test results 
≤ Declared 
value x1.0 
≤ Declared value 
x1.0 
≥ Declared value 
× 1.0 
Row 3 Third 
test 
Arithmetic 
average of three 
test results 
≤ Declared 
value x 1.0 
≤ Declared value 
x 1.0 
≥ Declared value 
× 1.0 
 
 
For NOVC-FCHVs and OVC-FCHVs in Charge-Sustaining(CS) condition 
 
Test 
Judgement parameter 
FCCS 
Row 1 
First test 
First test results 
≤ Declared value × 1.0 
Row 2 
Second 
test 
Arithmetic average of the 
first and second test results 
≤ Declared value × 1.0 
Row 3 
Third test Arithmetic 
average 
of 
three test results 
≤ Declared value × 1.0 
1.2.4 
Determination of phase-specific values 
1.2.4.1 
Phase-specific value for CO2 
1.2.4.1.1 
After the total cycle declared value of the CO2 mass emission is accepted, 
the arithmetic average of the phase-specific values of the test results in g/km 
shall be multiplied by the adjustment factor CO2_AF to compensate for the 
difference between the declared value and the test results. This corrected 
value shall be the type approval value for CO2. 
 
𝐶𝑂2_𝐴𝐹=
𝐷𝑒𝑐𝑙𝑎𝑟𝑒𝑑 𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒
𝑃ℎ𝑎𝑠𝑒 𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑏𝑖𝑛𝑒𝑑 𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒 
𝑃ℎ𝑎𝑠𝑒 𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑏𝑖𝑛𝑒𝑑 𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒= (𝐶𝑂2𝑎𝑣𝑒𝐿× 𝐷𝐿) + (𝐶𝑂2𝑎𝑣𝑒𝑀× 𝐷𝑀) + (𝐶𝑂2𝑎𝑣𝑒𝐻× 𝐷𝐻)
𝐷𝐿+ 𝐷𝑀+ 𝐷𝐻
 
 where: 
 𝐶𝑂2𝑎𝑣𝑒𝐿is the arithmetic average CO2 mass emission result for the L phase 
test result(s), g/km; 



--- PAGE 294 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 294 of 762 
 
𝐶𝑂2𝑎𝑣𝑒𝑀is the arithmetic average CO2 mass emission result for the M phase 
test result(s), g/km; 
𝐶𝑂2𝑎𝑣𝑒𝐻is the arithmetic average CO2 mass emission result for the H phase 
test result(s), g/km; 
DL  
is theoretical distance of phase L, km; 
DM  is theoretical distance of phase M, km; 
DH  is theoretical distance of phase H, km 
1.2.4.1.2 
If the total cycle declared value of the CO2 mass emission is not accepted, 
the type approval phase-specific CO2 mass emission value shall be 
calculated by taking the arithmetic average of the all test results for the 
respective phase. 
1.2.4.2 
Phase-specific values for fuel consumption 
 
The fuel consumption value shall be calculated by the phase-specific CO2 
mass emission using the equations in paragraph 1.2.4.1. of this annex and 
the arithmetic average of the emissions. 
2.0 
Type I test 
2.1 
Overview 
2.1.1 
The Type I test shall consist of prescribed sequences of dynamometer 
preparation, fuelling, soaking, and operating conditions. 
2.1.2 
The Type I test shall consist of vehicle operation on a chassis dynamometer 
on the applicable WLTC for the interpolation family. A proportional part of 
the diluted exhaust emissions shall be collected continuously for subsequent 
analysis using a constant volume sampler. 
2.1.3 
Background concentrations shall be measured for all compounds for which 
dilute mass emissions measurements are conducted. For exhaust emissions 
testing, this requires sampling and analysis of the dilution air. 
2.1.3.1 
Background particulate measurement 
2.1.3.1.1 
Where the manufacturer requests subtraction of either dilution air or dilution 
tunnel background particulate mass from emissions measurements, these 
background levels shall be determined according to the procedures listed in 
paragraphs 2.1.3.1.1.1. to 2.1.3.1.1.3. inclusive of this annex 
2.1.3.1.1.1 
The maximum permissible background correction shall be a mass on the 
filter equivalent to 1 mg/km at the flow rate of the test. 
2.1.3.1.1.2 
If the background exceeds this level, the default figure of 1 mg/km shall be 
subtracted 



--- PAGE 295 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 295 of 762 
 
2.1.3.1.1.3 
Where subtraction of the background contribution gives a negative result, 
the background level shall be considered to be zero. 
2.1.3.1.2 
Dilution air background particulate mass level shall be determined by 
passing filtered dilution air through the particulate background filter. This 
shall be drawn from a point immediately downstream of the dilution air 
filters. Background levels in g/m3 shall be determined as a rolling 
arithmetic average of at least 14 measurements with at least one 
measurement per week. 
2.1.3.1.3 
Dilution tunnel background particulate mass level shall be determined by 
passing filtered dilution air through the particulate background filter. This 
shall be drawn from the same point as the particulate matter sample. Where 
secondary dilution is used for the test, the secondary dilution system shall 
be active for the purposes of background measurement. One measurement 
may be performed on the day of test, either prior to or after the test. 
2.1.3.2 
Background particle number determination 
2.1.3.2.1 
Where a manufacturer requests a background correction, then with  the 
agreement of Test Agency, the subtraction of either dilution air or dilution 
tunnel background particle number from emissions measurements shall be 
determined as follows: 
2.1.3.2.1.1 
The background value may be either calculated or measured. The maximum 
permissible background correction shall be related to the maximum 
allowable leak rate of the particle number measurement system (0.5 particles 
per cm³) scaled from the particle concentration reduction factor, PCRF, and 
the CVS flow rate used in the actual test; 
2.1.3.2.1.2 
The manufacturer may request that actual background measurements are 
used instead of calculated ones. 
2.1.3.2.1.3 
Where subtraction of the background contribution gives a negative result, 
the PN result shall be considered to be zero. 
2.1.3.2.2 
The dilution air background particle number level shall be determined by 
sampling filtered dilution air. This shall be drawn from a point immediately 
downstream of the dilution air filters into the PN measurement system. 
Background levels in particles per cm³ shall be determined as a rolling 
arithmetic average of least 14 measurements with at least one measurement 
per week. 
2.1.3.2.3 
The dilution tunnel background particle number level shall be determined 
by sampling filtered dilution air. This shall be drawn from the same point as 
the PN sample. Where secondary dilution is used for the test the secondary 
dilution system shall be active for the purposes of background measurement. 
One measurement may be performed on the day of test, either prior to or 
after the test using the actual PCRF and the CVS flow rate utilised during 
the test. 



--- PAGE 296 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 296 of 762 
 
2.2 
General test cell equipment 
2.2.1 
Parameters to be measured 
2.2.1.1 
The following temperatures shall be measured with an accuracy of ±1.5 °C: 
(a) Test cell ambient air; 
(b) Dilution and sampling system temperatures as required for emissions 
measurement systems defined in Annex B5. 
2.2.1.2 
Atmospheric pressure shall be measurable with a precision of ±0.1 kPa. 
2.2.1.3 
Specific humidity H shall be measurable with a precision of ±1 g H2O/kg 
dry air. 
2.2.2 
Test cell and soak area 
2.2.2.1 
Test cell 
2.2.2.1.1 
The test cell shall have a temperature set point of 23 °C. The tolerance of 
the actual value shall be within ±5 °C. The air temperature and humidity 
shall be measured at the test cell's cooling fan outlet at a minimum frequency 
of 0.1 Hz. For the temperature at the start of the test, see paragraph 2.8.1. of 
this annex. 
2.2.2.1.2 
The specific humidity H of either the air in the test cell or the intake air of 
the engine shall be such that: 
 
5.5 ≤𝐻 ≤12.2 (g H2O/kg dry air) 
2.2.2.1.3 
Humidity shall be measured continuously at a minimum frequency of 
0.1 Hz. 
2.2.2.2 
Soak area 
 
The soak area shall have a temperature set point of 23 °C and the tolerance 
of the actual value shall be within ±3 °C on a 5-minute running arithmetic 
average and shall not show a systematic deviation from the set point. The 
temperature shall be measured continuously at a minimum frequency of 
0.033 Hz (every 30 s). 
2.3 
Test vehicle 
2.3.1 
General 
 
The test vehicle shall conform in all its components with the production 
series, or, if the vehicle is different from the production series (e.g. for worst 
case testing), a full description shall be recorded. In selecting the test 
vehicle, the manufacturer and the Test Agency shall agree which vehicle 
model is representative for the interpolation family.  



--- PAGE 297 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 297 of 762 
 
In the case that vehicles within an interpolation family are equipped with 
different emission control systems that could have an effect on the emission 
behaviour, the manufacturer shall either demonstrate to the Test Agency that 
the test vehicle(s) selected and its (their) results from the Type I test are 
representative for the interpolation family, or demonstrate the fulfilment of 
the criteria emission within the interpolation family by testing one or more 
individual vehicles that differ in their emission control systems. 
For the measurement of emissions, the road load as determined with test 
vehicle H shall be applied. In the case of a road load matrix family, for the 
measurement of emissions, the road load as calculated for vehicle HM 
according to paragraph 5.1. of Annex B4 shall be applied. 
If at the request of the manufacturer the interpolation method is used (see 
paragraph 3.2.3.2. of Annex B7), an additional measurement of emissions 
shall be performed with the road load as determined with test vehicle L. 
Tests on vehicles H and L should be performed with the same test vehicle 
and shall be tested with the shortest n/v ratio (with a tolerance of 
±1.5 per cent) within the interpolation family. In the case of a road load 
matrix family, an additional measurement of emissions shall be performed 
with the road load as calculated for vehicle LM according to paragraph 5.1. 
of Annex B4. 
Road load coefficients and the test mass of test vehicle L and H may be 
taken from different road load matrix families. They may also be taken from 
different road load families as long as the difference between these road load 
families has been demonstrated to and accepted by the Test Agency, and 
results from either applying paragraph 6.8. of Annex B4 or tyres taken from 
different tyre categories, while the requirements in paragraph 2.3.2. of this 
annex are maintained. 
2.3.2 
CO2 interpolation range 
2.3.2.1 
The interpolation method shall only be used if the difference in CO2 over 
the applicable cycle resulting from step 9 in Table A7/1 of Annex B7 
between test vehicles L and H is between a minimum of 5 g/km and a 
maximum defined in paragraph 2.3.2.2. of this annex. 
2.3.2.2 
The maximum difference in CO2 emissions allowed over the applicable 
cycle resulting from step 9 in Table A7/1 of Annex B7 between test vehicles 
L and H shall be 20 per cent plus 5 g/km of the CO2 emissions from vehicle 
H, but at least 15 g/km and not exceeding 30 g/km. See Figure A6/2. 
 
 



--- PAGE 298 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 298 of 762 
 
 
 
Figure A6/2 
Interpolation range for pure ICE vehicles 
 
 
 
This restriction does not apply for the application of a road load matrix 
family or when the calculation of the road load of vehicles L and H is based 
on the default road load. 
2.3.2.2.1 
The allowed interpolation range defined in paragraph 2.3.2.2. of this annex 
may be increased by 10 g/km CO2 (see Figure A6/3) if a vehicle M is tested 
within that family and the conditions according to paragraph 2.3.2.4. of this 
annex are fulfilled. This increase is allowed only once within an 
interpolation family. 
 
Figure A6/3 
Interpolation range for pure ICE vehicles with vehicle M 
 
 



--- PAGE 299 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 299 of 762 
 
2.3.2.3 
At the request of the manufacturer and with approval of the Test Agency, 
the application of the interpolation method on individual vehicle values 
within a family may be extended if the maximum extrapolation of an 
individual vehicle (Step 10 in Table A7/1 of Annex B7) is not more than 
3 g/km above the CO2 emission of vehicle H (Step 9 in Table A7/1 of 
Annex B7) and/or is not more than 3 g/km below the CO2 emission of 
vehicle L (Step 9 in Table A7/1 of Annex B7). This extrapolation is valid 
only within the absolute boundaries of the interpolation range specified in 
paragraph 2.3.2.2. 
 
For the application of a road load matrix family, or when the calculation of 
the road load of vehicles L and H is based on the default road load, 
extrapolation is not permitted. 
2.3.2.4 
Vehicle M 
 
Vehicle M is a vehicle within the interpolation family between the vehicles 
L and H with a cycle energy demand which is preferably closest to the 
average of vehicles L and H. 
 
The limits of the selection of vehicle M (see Figure A6/4) are such that 
neither the difference in CO2 emission values between vehicles H and M nor 
the difference in CO2 emission values between vehicles M and L is greater 
the allowed CO2 range in accordance with paragraph 2.3.2.2. of this annex. 
The defined road load coefficients and the defined test mass shall be 
recorded. 
 
Figure A6/4 
Limits for the selection of vehicle M 
 
 
 
Figure A6/4 
Limits for the selection of vehicle M 
 
In case of a 4-phase calculation the linearity of the corrected measured and 
averaged CO2 mass emission for vehicle M, MCO2,c,6,M according to step 
6 of Table A7/1 of Annex 7, shall be verified against the linearly interpolated 
CO2 mass emission between vehicles L and H over the applicable cycle by 
using the corrected measured  and averaged CO2 mass emission 



--- PAGE 300 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 300 of 762 
 
MCO2,c,6,H of vehicle H and MCO2,c,6,L of vehicle L, according to step 
6 of Table A7/1 of Annex 7, for the linear CO2 mass emission interpolation. 
 
In case of a 3-phase calculation an additional averaging of tests using the 
CO2-output of step 4a is necessary (not described in Table A7/1). The 
linearity of the corrected measured and averaged CO2 mass emission for 
vehicle M, MCO2,c,4a,M according to step 4a of Table A7/1 of Annex 7, 
shall be verified against the linearly interpolated CO2 mass emission 
between vehicles L and H over the applicable cycle by using the corrected 
measured  and averaged CO2 mass emission MCO2,c,4a,H values of vehicle 
H and MCO2,c,4a,L of vehicle L, according to step 4a used in of Table A7/1 
of Annex 7, for the linear CO2 mass emission interpolation.The linearity 
criterion for vehicle M (see Figure A6/5) shall be considered fulfilled, if the 
CO2 mass emission of the vehicle M over the applicable WLTC minus the 
CO2 mass emission derived by interpolation is less than 2 g/km or 3 per cent 
of the interpolated value, whichever value is lower, but at least 1 g/km. 
 
 
 
Figure A6/5 
Linearity criterion for vehicle M 
 
 
 
If the linearity criterion is fulfilled, the CO2 values of individual vehicles 
shall be interpolated between vehicles L and H. 
 
If the linearity criterion is not fulfilled, the interpolation family shall be split 
into two sub-families for vehicles with a cycle energy demand between 
vehicles L and M, and vehicles with a cycle energy demand between 
vehicles M and H. In such a case, the final CO2 mass emissions of vehicle 
M shall be determined in accordance with the same process as for vehicles 
L or H. See step 9 in Table A7/1 of Annex B7.  
 
For vehicles with a cycle energy demand between that of vehicles L and M, 
each parameter of vehicle H necessary for the application of the 



--- PAGE 301 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 301 of 762 
 
interpolation method on individual values shall be substituted by the 
corresponding parameter of vehicle M 
 
For vehicles with a cycle energy demand between that of vehicles M and H, 
each parameter of vehicle L necessary for the application of the interpolation 
method on individual values shall be substituted by the corresponding 
parameter of vehicle M. 
2.3.3 
Run-in 
 
The vehicle shall be presented in good technical condition. It shall have been 
run-in and driven between 3,000 and 15,000 km before the test. The engine, 
transmission and vehicle shall be run-in in accordance with the 
manufacturer’s recommendations.  
2.4 
Settings 
2.4.1 
Dynamometer settings and verification shall be performed according to 
Annex B4. 
2.4.2 
Dynamometer operation 
2.4.2.1 
Auxiliary devices shall be switched off or deactivated during dynamometer 
operation unless their operation is required by legislation (e.g. daylight 
running lamps). 
2.4.2.1.1 
If the vehicle is equipped with a coasting functionality, this functionality 
shall be deactivated either by a switch or by the vehicle’s dynamometer 
operation mode during chassis dynamometer testing, except for tests where 
the coasting functionality is explicitly required by the test procedure. 
2.4.2.2 
The vehicle’s dynamometer operation mode, if any, shall be activated by 
using the manufacturer's instruction (e.g. using vehicle steering wheel 
buttons in a special sequence, using the manufacturer’s workshop tester, 
removing a fuse). 
 
The manufacturer shall provide the Test Agency a list of the deactivated 
devices and/or functionalities and justification for the deactivation. The 
dynamometer operation mode shall be approved by the Test Agency,  and 
the use of a dynamometer operation mode shall be recorded. 
2.4.2.3 
The vehicle’s dynamometer operation mode shall not activate, modulate, 
delay or deactivate the operation of any part (with the exclusion of the 
coasting functionality) that affects the emissions and fuel consumption 
under the test conditions. Any device that affects the operation on a chassis 
dynamometer shall be set to ensure a proper operation. 
2.4.2.4 
Allocation of dynamometer type to test vehicle 
2.4.2.4.1 
If the test vehicle has two powered axles, and under WLTP conditions it is 
partially or permanently operated with two axles being powered or 
recuperating energy over the applicable cycle the vehicle shall be tested on 



--- PAGE 302 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 302 of 762 
 
a dynamometer in 4WD operation which fulfils the specifications in 
paragraphs 2.2. and 2.3. of Annex B5. 
2.4.2.4.2 
If the test vehicle is tested with only one powered axle, the test vehicle shall 
be tested on a dynamometer in 2WD operation which fulfils the 
specifications in paragraph 2.2. of Annex B5. 
 
At the request of the manufacturer and with the approval of the Test Agency 
a vehicle with one powered axle may be tested on a 4WD dynamometer in 
4WD operation mode.  
2.4.2.4.3 
If the test vehicle is operated with two axles being powered in dedicated 
driver-selectable modes which are not intended for normal daily operation 
but only for special limited purposes, such as ‘mountain mode’ or 
‘maintenance mode’, or when the mode with two powered axles is only 
activated in an off-road situation, the vehicle shall be tested on a 
dynamometer in 2WD operation which fulfils the specifications in 
paragraph 2.2. of Annex B5. 
2.4.2.4.4 
If the test vehicle is tested on a 4WD dynamometer in 2WD operation the 
wheels on the non-powered axle may rotate during the test, provided that 
the vehicle dynamometer operation mode and vehicle coastdown mode 
support this way of operation. 
 
Figure A6/5a 
Possible test configurations on 2WD and 4WD dynamometers 
 
 
2.4.2.5 
Demonstration of equivalency between a dynamometer in 2WD operation 
and a dynamometer in 4WD operation 
2.4.2.5.1 
At the request of the manufacturer and with the approval of the Test Agency, 
the vehicle which has to be tested on a dynamometer in 4WD operation may 
alternatively be tested on a dynamometer in 2WD operation if the following 
conditions are met: 
 
(a) 
the test vehicle is converted to have only one powered axle; 
2WD vehicle
2WD vehicle
2WD vehicle
2WD vehicle
2WD vehicle
dyno: 
simulates road load and inertia
dyno: 
just rotating, not included in energy balance
4WD vehicle
2 powered axles
mainly powered axle 
is front
(situation for rear is 
equivalent)
2WD vehicle
1 powered axle
front wheel drive
(situation for rear 
wheel drive is 
equivalent)
4WD dynamometer in 4WD operation
Contracting Party option
4WD dynamometer in 2WD operation
(upon demonstration of equivalency)
4WD vehicle
converted to 2WD
4WD vehicle
converted to 2WD
4WD vehicle
converted to 2WD
4WD vehicle
converted to 2WD
4WD vehicle
2WD dynamometer in 2WD operation
(upon demonstration of equivalency)
single roller
dynamometer
twin-roller
dynamometer
single roller
dynamometer
twin-roller
dynamometer
4WD dynamometer in 4WD operation
(at the request of the manufacturer)
4WD dynamometer in 2WD operation
2WD dynamometer in 2WD operation
vehicle: powered axle
vehicle: non-powered axle / in case of 4WD vehicle: 
a powered axle, that is converted such, that it 
is non-powered for dyno testing



--- PAGE 303 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 303 of 762 
 
(b) 
the manufacturer demonstrates to the Test Agency that the CO2, fuel 
consumption and/or electrical energy consumption of the converted 
vehicle is the same or higher as for the non-converted vehicle being 
tested on a dynamometer in 4WD operation; 
(c) 
a safe operation is ensured for the test (e.g. by removing a fuse or 
dismounting a drive shaft) and an instruction is provided together 
with the dynamometer operation mode; 
(d) 
the conversion is only applied to the vehicle tested at the chassis 
dynamometer, the road load determination procedure shall be applied 
to the unconverted test vehicle. 
2.4.2.5.2 
This demonstration of equivalency shall apply to all vehicles in the same 
road load family. At the request of the manufacturer, and with approval of 
the Test Agency, this demonstration of equivalency may be extended to 
other road load families upon evidence that a vehicle from the worst-case 
road load family was selected as the test vehicle. 
2.4.2.6 
Information on whether the vehicle was tested on a 2WD dynamometer or a 
4WD dynamometer and whether it was tested on a dynamometer in 2WD 
operation or 4WD operation shall be included in all relevant test reports. In 
the case that the vehicle was tested on a 4WD dynamometer, with that 
dynamometer in 2WD operation, this information shall also indicate 
whether or not the wheels on the non-powered wheels were rotating. 
2.4.3 
The vehicle’s exhaust system shall not exhibit any leak likely to reduce the 
quantity of gas collected. 
2.4.4 
The settings of the powertrain and vehicle controls shall be those prescribed 
by the manufacturer for series production. 
2.4.5 
Tyres shall be of a type specified as original equipment by the vehicle 
manufacturer. Tyre pressure may be increased by up to 50 per cent above 
the pressure specified in paragraph 4.2.2.3. of Annex B4. The same tyre 
pressure shall be used for the setting of the dynamometer and for all 
subsequent testing. The tyre pressure used shall be recorded. 
2.4.6 
Reference fuel 
 
The appropriate reference fuel as specified in Gazette Notification. 
2.4.7 
Test vehicle preparation 
2.4.7.1 
The vehicle shall be approximately horizontal during the test so as to avoid 
any abnormal distribution of the fuel. 
2.4.7.3 
For PM sampling during a test when the regenerating device is in a stabilized 
loading condition (i.e. the vehicle is not undergoing a regeneration), it is 
recommended that the vehicle has completed more than 1/3 of the mileage 



--- PAGE 304 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 304 of 762 
 
between scheduled regenerations or that the periodically regenerating 
device has undergone equivalent loading off the vehicle. 
2.5 
Preliminary testing cycles 
 
Preliminary testing cycles may be carried out if requested by the 
manufacturer to follow the speed trace within the prescribed limits 
2.6 
Test vehicle preconditioning 
2.6.1 
Vehicle preparation 
2.6.1.1 
Fuel tank filling 
 
The fuel tank(s) shall be filled with the specified test fuel. If the existing fuel 
in the fuel tank(s) does not meet the specifications contained in 
paragraph 2.4.6. of this annex, the existing fuel shall be drained prior to the 
fuel fill. The evaporative emission control system shall neither be 
abnormally purged nor abnormally loaded. 
2.6.1.2 
REESSs charging 
 
Before the preconditioning test cycle, the REESSs shall be fully charged. At 
the request of the manufacturer, charging may be omitted before 
preconditioning. The REESSs shall not be charged again before official 
testing. 
2.6.1.3 
Tyre pressures 
 
The tyre pressure of the driving wheels shall be set in accordance with 
paragraph 2.4.5. of this annex. 
2.6.1.4 
Gaseous fuel vehicles 
 
Between the tests on the first gaseous reference fuel and the second gaseous 
reference fuel, for vehicles with positive ignition engines fuelled with LPG 
or NG/biomethane or so equipped that they can be fuelled with either petrol 
or LPG or NG/biomethane, the vehicle shall be preconditioned again before 
the test on the second reference fuel. Between the tests on the first gaseous 
reference fuel and the second gaseous reference fuel, for vehicles with 
positive ignition engines fuelled with LPG or NG/biomethane or so 
equipped that they can be fuelled with either petrol or LPG or 
NG/biomethane, the vehicle shall be preconditioned again before the test on 
the second reference fuel. 
2.6.2 
Test cell 
2.6.2.1 
Temperature 
 
During preconditioning, the test cell temperature shall be the same as 
defined for the Type I test (paragraph 2.2.2.1.1. of this annex). 



--- PAGE 305 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 305 of 762 
 
2.6.2.2 
Background measurement 
 
In a test facility in which there may be possible contamination of a low 
particulate emitting vehicle test with residue from a previous test on a high 
particulate emitting vehicle, it is recommended, for the purpose of sampling 
equipment preconditioning, that a 120 km/h steady state drive cycle of 
20 minutes duration be driven by a low particulate emitting vehicle. Longer 
and/or higher speed running is permissible for sampling equipment 
preconditioning if required. Dilution tunnel background measurements, if 
applicable, shall be taken after the tunnel preconditioning, and prior to any 
subsequent vehicle testing. 
2.6.3 
Procedure 
2.6.3.1 
The test vehicle shall be placed, either by being driven or pushed, on a 
dynamometer and operated through the applicable WLTCs. The vehicle 
need not be cold, and may be used to set the dynamometer load. 
2.6.3.2 
The dynamometer load shall be set according to paragraphs 7. and 8. of 
Annex B4. In the case that a dynamometer in 2WD operation is used for 
testing, the road load setting shall be carried out on a dynamometer in 2WD 
operation, and in the case that a dynamometer in 4WD operation is used for 
testing the road load setting shall be carried out on a dynamometer in 4WD 
operation. 
2.6.4 
Operating the vehicle 
2.6.4.1 
The powertrain start procedure shall be initiated by means of the devices 
provided for this purpose according to the manufacturer's instructions. 
 
A non-vehicle initiated switching of mode of operation during the test shall 
not be permitted unless otherwise specified. 
2.6.4.1.1 
If the initiation of the powertrain start procedure is not successful, e.g. the 
engine does not start as anticipated or the vehicle displays a start error, the 
test is void, preconditioning tests shall be repeated and a new test shall be 
driven. 
2.6.4.1.2 
In the cases where LPG or NG/biomethane is used as a fuel, it is permissible 
that the engine is started on petrol and switched automatically to LPG or 
NG/biomethane after a predetermined period of time that cannot be changed 
by the driver. This period of time shall not exceed 60 seconds. 
 
It is also permissible to use petrol only or simultaneously with gas when 
operating in gas mode provided that the energy consumption of gas is higher 
than 80 per cent of the total amount of energy consumed during the Type I 
test. This percentage shall be calculated in accordance with the method set 
out in Appendix 3 to this annex. 
2.6.4.2 
The cycle starts on initiation of the powertrain start procedure. 



--- PAGE 306 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 306 of 762 
 
2.6.4.3 
For preconditioning, the applicable WLTC shall be driven. 
 
At the request of the manufacturer or the Test Agency, additional WLTCs 
may be performed in order to bring the vehicle and its control systems to a 
stabilized condition. 
 
The extent of such additional preconditioning shall be recorded  
2.6.4.4 
Accelerations 
 
The vehicle shall be operated with the necessary accelerator control 
movement to accurately follow the speed trace. 
 
The vehicle shall be operated smoothly following representative shift speeds 
and procedures. 
 
For manual transmissions, the accelerator control shall be released during 
each shift and the shift shall be accomplished in minimum time. 
 
If the vehicle cannot follow the speed trace, it shall be operated at maximum 
available power until the vehicle speed reaches the respective target speed 
again. 
2.6.4.5 
Deceleration 
 
During decelerations, the driver shall deactivate the accelerator control but 
shall not manually disengage the clutch until the point specified in 
paragraphs 3.3. or 4.(f) of Annex B2. 
 
If the vehicle decelerates faster than prescribed by the speed trace, the 
accelerator control shall be operated such that the vehicle accurately follows 
the speed trace 
 
If the vehicle decelerates too slowly to follow the intended deceleration, the 
brakes shall be applied such that it is possible to accurately follow the speed 
trace. 
2.6.4.6 
Brake application 
 
During stationary/idling vehicle phases, the brakes shall be applied with 
appropriate force to prevent the drive wheels from turning. 
2.6.5 
Use of the transmission 
2.6.5.1 
Manual shift transmissions 
2.6.5.1.1 
The gear shift prescriptions specified in Annex B2 shall be followed. 
Vehicles tested according to Annex B8 shall be driven according to 
paragraph 1.5. of that annex. 
2.6.5.1.2 
The gear change shall be started and completed within ±1.0 second of the 
prescribed gear shift point. 



--- PAGE 307 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 307 of 762 
 
2.6.5.1.3 
The clutch shall be depressed within ±1.0 second of the prescribed clutch 
operating point. 
2.6.5.2 
Automatic shift transmissions 
2.6.5.2.1 
After initial engagement, the selector shall not be operated at any time 
during the test. Initial engagement shall be done 1 second before beginning 
the first acceleration. 
2.6.5.2.2 
Vehicles with an automatic transmission with a manual mode shall not be 
tested in manual mode. 
2.6.6 
Driver-selectable modes 
2.6.6.1 
Vehicles equipped with a predominant mode shall be tested in that mode. At 
the request of the manufacturer, the vehicle may alternatively be tested with 
the driver-selectable mode in the worst-case position for CO2 emissions. 
 
The manufacturer shall provide evidence to the Test Agency of the existence 
of a mode that fulfils the requirements of paragraph 3.5.9. of this Regulation. 
With the agreement of the Test Agency, the predominant mode may be used 
as the only mode for the determination of criteria emissions, CO2 emissions, 
and fuel consumption.  
2.6.6.2 
If the vehicle has no predominant mode because it has two or more 
configurable start modes, the worst case mode for CO2 emissions and fuel 
consumption within those configurable start modes shall be tested and may 
be used as the only mode for the determination of criteria emissions, CO2 
emissions and fuel consumption. 
2.6.6.3 
If the vehicle has no predominant mode or the requested predominant mode 
is not agreed by the Test Agency as being a predominant mode, or there are 
not two or more configurable start modes, the vehicle shall be tested for 
criteria emissions, CO2 emissions, and fuel consumption in the best case 
mode and worst case mode. Best and worst case modes shall be identified 
by the evidence provided on the CO2 emissions and fuel consumption in all 
modes. CO2 emissions and fuel consumption shall be the arithmetic average 
of the test results in both modes. Test results for both modes shall be 
recorded. 
 
At the request of the manufacturer, the vehicle may alternatively be tested 
with the driver-selectable mode in the worst case position for CO2 
emissions. 
2.6.6.4 
On the basis of technical evidence provided by the manufacturer and with 
the agreement of the Test Agency, the dedicated driver-selectable modes for 
very special limited purposes shall not be considered (e.g. maintenance 
mode, crawler mode). All remaining modes used for forward driving shall 
be considered and the criteria emissions limits shall be fulfilled in all these 
modes. 



--- PAGE 308 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 308 of 762 
 
2.6.6.5 
Paragraphs 2.6.6.1. to 2.6.6.4. inclusive of this annex shall apply to all 
vehicle systems with driver-selectable modes, including those not solely 
specific to the transmission. 
2.6.7 
Voiding of the Type I test and completion of the cycle 
 
If the engine stops unexpectedly, the preconditioning or Type I test shall be 
declared void. 
 
After completion of the cycle, the engine shall be switched off. The vehicle 
shall not be restarted until the beginning of the test for which the vehicle has 
been preconditioned. 
2.6.8 
Data required, quality control 
2.6.8.1 
Speed measurement 
 
During the preconditioning, speed shall be measured against time or 
collected by the data acquisition system at a frequency of not less than 1 Hz 
so that the actual driven speed can be assessed. 
2.6.8.2 
Distance travelled 
 
The distance actually driven by the vehicle shall be recorded for each WLTC 
phase. 
2.6.8.3 
Speed trace tolerances 
 
Vehicles that cannot attain the acceleration and maximum speed values 
required in the applicable WLTC shall be operated with the accelerator 
control fully activated until they once again reach the required speed trace. 
Speed trace violations under these circumstances shall not void a test. 
Deviations from the driving cycle shall be recorded. 
2.6.8.3.1 
Unless otherwise stated in the specific sections, the following tolerances 
shall be permitted between the actual vehicle speed and the prescribed speed 
of the applicable test cycles based on the driving events: 
2.6.8.3.1.1 
Tolerance (1) 
 
(a) 
Upper limit: 2.0 km/h higher than the highest point of the trace within 
±5.0 second of the given point in time; 
 
(b) 
Lower limit: 2.0 km/h lower than the lowest point of the trace within 
±5.0 second of the given time. 
2.6.8.3.1.2 
Tolerance (2) 
 
(a) 
Upper limit: 2.0 km/h higher than the highest point of the trace within 
±1.0 second of the given point in time; 



--- PAGE 309 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 309 of 762 
 
(b) 
Lower limit: 2.0 km/h lower than the lowest point of the trace within 
±1.0 second of the given time. 
(i) 
Speed tolerances greater than those prescribed shall be 
accepted provided the tolerances are never exceeded for more 
than 1 second on any one occasion. 
(ii) 
There shall be no more than ten such deviations per test cycle. 
2.6.8.3.1.3 
Tolerance (3) 
 
In the case of a type approval test, the following indices shall fulfil the 
following criteria: 
(a) 
 IWR shall be in the range of (- 2.0 < IWR < + 4.0) per cent; 
(b) 
 RMSSE, less than 1.3 km/h. 
2.6.8.3.1.4 
Tolerance (4) 
 
In the case of a type approval test, the following indices shall fulfil the 
following criteria: 
(a) 
 IWR shall be in the range of (- 2.0 < IWR < + 4.0) per cent; 
(b) 
 RMSSE shall be less than 1.3 km/h. 
2.6.8.3.1.5 
IWR and RMSSE drive trace indices shall be calculated in accordance with 
the requirements of paragraph 7. of Annex B7. 
2.6.8.3.2 
The vehicle operation events and tolerances to be permitted for these events 
are as follows: 
 
Vehicle 
operation 
Warm-up 
cycle for 
dynamometer 
setting 
Pre-
conditioning 
Performance 
parameter 
measurement test 
after 
preconditioning 
Annex B6 and 
B8;  
Type I Tests 
Tolerance (1) 
Tolerance (2) 
Tolerance (2)* and 
Tolerance (3) 
Annex C3: 
Type IVTest 
Tolerance (1) 
Tolerance (2) 
Tolerance (2)* 
Annex C5 
Appendix1;  
Tolerance (1) 
Tolerance (2) 
Tolerance (2)* 



--- PAGE 310 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 310 of 762 
 
OBD 
Demonstration 
Tests 
 
COP Tests 
(Appendix1 ) 
Tolerance (1) 
Tolerance (2) 
Tolerance (2)* and 
Tolerance (4) 
 
Derive run-in 
factor for 
COP(Appendix
3 ) 
Tolerance (1) 
Tolerance (2) 
Tolerance (2)* and 
Tolerance (3) 
 
* the tolerance shall not be shown to the driver 
 
If the speed trace is outside the respective validity range for any of the 
tests, those individual tests shall be considered invalid. 
 
 
 
Figure A6/6 
Speed trace tolerances 
 
 
2.7 
Soaking 
2.7.1 
After preconditioning and before testing, the test vehicle shall be kept in an 
area with ambient conditions as specified in paragraph 2.2.2.2. of this annex. 
2.7.2 
The vehicle shall be soaked for a minimum of 6 hours and a maximum of 
36 hours with the engine compartment cover opened or closed. If not 
excluded by specific provisions for a particular vehicle, cooling may be 
accomplished by forced cooling down to the set point temperature. If 
cooling is accelerated by fans, the fans shall be placed so that the maximum 
cooling of the drive train, engine and exhaust after-treatment system is 
achieved in a homogeneous manner. 



--- PAGE 311 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 311 of 762 
 
2.8 
Emission and fuel consumption test (Type I test) 
2.8.1 
The test cell temperature at the start of the test shall be 23 °C ±3 °C. The 
engine oil temperature and coolant temperature, if any, shall be within ±2 °C 
of the set point of 23 °C. 
2.8.2 
The test vehicle shall be pushed onto a dynamometer. 
2.8.2.1 
The drive wheels of the vehicle shall be placed on the dynamometer without 
starting the engine. 
2.8.2.2 
The drive-wheel tyre pressures shall be set in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.4.5. of this annex. 
2.8.2.3 
The engine compartment cover shall be closed. 
2.8.2.4 
An exhaust connecting tube shall be attached to the vehicle tailpipe(s) 
immediately before starting the engine. 
2.8.2.5 
The tested vehicle shall be placed on the chassis dynamometer according to 
paragraphs 7.3.3. to 7.3.3.1.4. of Annex B4. 
2.8.3 
Starting of the powertrain and driving 
2.8.3.1 
The powertrain start procedure shall be initiated by means of the devices 
provided for this purpose according to the manufacturer's instructions. 
2.8.3.2 
The vehicle shall be driven as described in paragraphs 2.6.4. to 2.6.8. 
inclusive of this annex over the applicable WLTC, as described in Annex B1 
2.8.4 
RCB data shall be measured for each phase of the WLTC as defined in 
Appendix 2 to this annex. 
2.8.5 
Actual vehicle speed shall be sampled with a measurement frequency of 
10 Hz and the drive trace indices described in paragraph 7. of Annex B7 
shall be calculated and reported. 
2.9 
Gaseous sampling 
 
Gaseous samples shall be collected in bags and the compounds analysed at 
the end of the test or a test phase, or the compounds may be analysed 
continuously and integrated over the cycle. 
2.9.1 
The following steps shall be taken prior to each test: 
2.9.1.1 
The purged, evacuated sample bags shall be connected to the dilute exhaust 
and dilution air sample collection systems. 
2.9.1.2 
Measuring instruments shall be started according to the instrument 
manufacturer's instructions. 



--- PAGE 312 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 312 of 762 
 
2.9.1.3 
The CVS heat exchanger (if installed) shall be pre-heated or pre-cooled to 
within its operating test temperature tolerance as specified in 
paragraph 3.3.5.1. of Annex B5. 
2.9.1.4 
Components such as sample lines, filters, chillers and pumps shall be heated 
or cooled as required until stabilised operating temperatures are reached. 
2.9.1.5 
CVS flow rates shall be set according to paragraph 3.3.4. of Annex B5, and 
sample flow rates shall be set to the appropriate levels. 
2.9.1.6 
Any electronic integrating device shall be zeroed and may be re-zeroed 
before the start of any cycle phase. 
2.9.1.7 
For all continuous gas analysers, the appropriate ranges shall be selected. 
These may be switched during a test only if switching is performed by 
changing the calibration over which the digital resolution of the instrument 
is applied. The gains of an analyser’s analogue operational amplifiers may 
not be switched during a test 
2.9.1.8 
All continuous gas analysers shall be zeroed and calibrated using gases 
fulfilling the requirements of paragraph 6. of Annex B5. 
2.10 
Sampling for PM determination 
2.10.1 
The steps described in paragraphs 2.10.1.1. to 2.10.1.2.2. inclusive of this 
annex shall be taken prior to each test. 
2.10.1.1 
Filter selection 
 
A single particulate sample filter without back-up shall be employed for the 
complete applicable WLTC. 
2.10.1.2 
Filter preparation 
2.10.1.2.1 
At least 1 hour before the test, the filter shall be placed in a petri dish 
protecting against dust contamination and allowing air exchange, and placed 
in a weighing chamber (or room) for stabilization 
At the end of the stabilization period, the filter shall be weighed and its 
weight shall be recorded. The filter shall subsequently be stored in a closed 
petri dish or sealed filter holder until needed for testing. The filter shall be 
used within 8 hours of its removal from the weighing chamber (or room). 
The filter shall be returned to the stabilization room within 1 hour after the 
test and shall be conditioned for at least 1 hour before weighing. 
2.10.1.2.2 
The particulate sample filter shall be carefully installed into the filter holder. 
The filter shall be handled only with forceps or tongs. Rough or abrasive 
filter handling will result in erroneous weight determination. The filter 
holder assembly shall be placed in a sample line through which there is no 
flow. 



--- PAGE 313 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 313 of 762 
 
2.10.1.2.3 
It is recommended that the microbalance be checked at the start of each 
weighing session, within 24 hours of the sample weighing, by weighing one 
reference item of approximately 100 mg. This item shall be weighed three 
times and the arithmetic average result recorded. If the arithmetic average 
result of the weighings is ±5 μg of the result from the previous weighing 
session, the weighing session and balance are considered valid. 
2.11 
PN sampling 
2.11.1 
The steps described in paragraphs 2.11.1.1. to 2.11.1.2. inclusive of this 
annex shall be taken prior to each test: 
2.11.1.1 
The particle specific dilution system and measurement equipment shall be 
started and made ready for sampling; 
2.11.1.2 
The correct function of the PNC and VPR elements of the particle sampling 
system shall be confirmed according to the procedures listed in 
paragraphs 2.11.1.2.1. to 2.11.1.2.4. inclusive of this annex 
2.11.1.2.1 
A leak check, using a filter of appropriate performance attached to the inlet 
of the entire PN measurement system, VPR and PNC, shall report a 
measured concentration of less than 0.5 particles per cm³. 
2.11.1.2.2 
Each day, a zero check on the PNC, using a filter of appropriate performance 
at the PNC inlet, shall report a concentration of ≤ 0.2 particles per cm³. Upon 
removal of the filter, the PNC shall show an increase in measured 
concentration and a return to ≤ 0.2 particles per cm³ on replacement of the 
filter.The PNC shall not report any error. 
2.11.1.2.3 
It shall be confirmed that the measurement system indicates that the 
evaporation tube, where featured in the system, has reached its correct 
operating temperature. 
2.11.1.2.4 
It shall be confirmed that the measurement system indicates that the diluter 
PND1 has reached its correct operating temperature. 
2.12 
Sampling during the test 
2.12.1 
The dilution system, sample pumps and data collection system shall be 
started. 
2.12.2 
The PM and, if applicable PN sampling systems shall be started 
2.12.3 
Particle number, if applicable, shall be measured continuously. The 
arithmetic average concentration shall be determined by integrating the 
analyser signals over each phase. 
2.12.4 
Sampling shall begin before or at the initiation of the powertrain start 
procedure and end on conclusion of the cycle. 
2.12.5 
Sample switching 



--- PAGE 314 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 314 of 762 
 
2.12.5.1 
Gaseous emissions 
 
Sampling from the diluted exhaust and dilution air shall be switched from 
one pair of sample bags to subsequent bag pairs, if necessary, at the end of 
each phase of the applicable WLTC to be driven. 
2.12.5.2 
Particulate 
 
The requirements of paragraph 2.10.1.1. of this annex shall apply. 
2.12.6 
Dynamometer distance shall be recorded for each phase. 
2.13 
Ending the test 
2.13.1 
The engine shall be turned off immediately after the end of the last part of 
the test. 
2.13.2 
The constant volume sampler, CVS, or other suction device shall be turned 
off, or the exhaust tube from the tailpipe or tailpipes of the vehicle shall be 
disconnected. 
2.13.3 
The vehicle may be removed from the dynamometer. 
2.14 
Post-test procedures 
2.14.1 
Gas analyser check 
 
Zero and calibration gas reading of the analysers used for continuous diluted 
measurement shall be checked. The test shall be considered acceptable if the 
difference between the pre-test and post-test results is less than 2 per cent of 
the calibration gas value. 
2.14.2 
Bag analysis 
2.14.2.1 
Exhaust gases and dilution air contained in the bags shall be analysed as 
soon as possible. Exhaust gases shall, in any event, be analysed not later 
than 30 minutes after the end of the cycle phase 
 
The gas reactivity time for compounds in the bag shall be taken into 
consideration. 
2.14.2.2 
As soon as practical prior to analysis, the analyser range to be used for each 
compound shall be set to zero with the appropriate zero gas. 
2.14.2.3 
The calibration curves of the analysers shall be set by means of calibration 
gases of nominal concentrations of 70 to 100 per cent of the range. 
2.14.2.4 
The zero settings of the analysers shall be subsequently rechecked: if any 
reading differs by more than 2 per cent of the range from that set in 
paragraph 2.14.2.2. of this annex, the procedure shall be repeated for that 
analyser. 



--- PAGE 315 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 315 of 762 
 
2.14.2.5 
The samples shall be subsequently analysed. 
2.14.2.6 
After the analysis, zero and calibration points shall be rechecked using the 
same gases. The test shall be considered acceptable if the difference is less 
than 2 per cent of the calibration gas value. 
2.14.2.7 
The flow rates and pressures of the various gases through analysers shall be 
the same as those used during calibration of the analysers. 
2.14.2.8 
The content of each of the compounds measured shall be recorded after 
stabilization of the measuring device. 
2.14.2.9 
The mass and number of all emissions, where applicable, shall be calculated 
according to Annex B7. 
2.14.2.10 
Calibrations and checks shall be performed either: 
(a) 
Before and after each bag pair analysis; or 
(b) 
Before and after the complete test. 
In case (b), calibrations and checks shall be performed on all analysers for 
all ranges used during the test. 
In both cases, (a) and (b), the same analyser range shall be used for the 
corresponding ambient air and exhaust bags 
2.14.3 
Particulate sample filter weighing 
2.14.3.1 
The particulate sample filter shall be returned to the weighing chamber (or 
room) no later than 1 hour after completion of the test. It shall be 
conditioned in a petri dish, which is protected against dust contamination 
and allows air exchange, for at least 1 hour, and weighed. The gross weight 
of the filter shall be recorded. 
2.14.3.2 
At least two unused reference filters shall be weighed within 8 hours of, but 
preferably at the same time as, the sample filter weighings. Reference filters 
shall be of the same size and material as the sample filter. 
2.14.3.3 
If the specific weight of any reference filter changes by more than ±5 μg 
between sample filter weighings, the sample filter and reference filters shall 
be reconditioned in the weighing chamber (or room) and reweighed. 
2.14.3.4 
The comparison of reference filter weighings shall be made between the 
specific weights and the rolling arithmetic average of that reference filter's 
specific weights. The rolling arithmetic average shall be calculated from the 
specific weights collected in the period after the reference filters were placed 
in the weighing chamber (or room). The averaging period shall be at least 
one day but not more than 15 days. 
2.14.3.5 
Multiple reconditionings and reweighings of the sample and reference filters 
are permitted until a period of 80 hours has elapsed following the 



--- PAGE 316 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 316 of 762 
 
measurement of gases from the emissions test. If, prior to or at the 80-hour 
point, more than half the number of reference filters meet the ±5 μg 
criterion, the sample filter weighing may be considered valid. If, at the 80-
hour point, two reference filters are employed and one filter fails the ±5 μg 
criterion, the sample filter weighing may be considered valid under the 
condition that the sum of the absolute differences between specific and 
rolling means from the two reference filters shall be less than or equal to 
10 μg. 
2.14.3.6 
In the case that less than half of the reference filters meet the ±5 μg criterion, 
the sample filter shall be discarded, and the emissions test repeated. All 
reference filters shall be discarded and replaced within 48 hours. In all other 
cases, reference filters shall be replaced at least every 30 days and in such a 
manner that no sample filter is weighed without comparison to a reference 
filter that has been present in the weighing chamber (or room) for at least 
one day. 
2.14.3.7 
If the weighing chamber (or room) stability criteria outlined in 
paragraph 4.2.2.1. of Annex B5 are not met, but the reference filter 
weighing’s meet the above criteria, the vehicle manufacturer has the option 
of accepting the sample filter weights or voiding the tests, repairing the 
weighing chamber (or room) control system and re-running the test. 
 



--- PAGE 317 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 317 of 762 
 
 
Annex B6- Appendix 1 
Emissions test procedure for all vehicles equipped with periodically regenerating 
systems 
1.0 
General 
1.1 
This appendix defines the specific provisions regarding testing a vehicle 
equipped with periodically regenerating systems as defined in paragraph 3.8.1. 
of this Regulation. 
1.2 
During cycles where regeneration occurs, emission standards need not apply. 
If a periodic regeneration occurs at least once per Type I test and has already 
occurred at least once during vehicle preparation or the distance between two 
successive periodic regenerations is more than 4,000 km of driving repeated 
Type I tests, it does not require a special test procedure. In this case, this 
appendix does not apply and a Ki factor of 1.0 shall be used.  
1.3 
The provisions of this appendix shall not apply to PN emissions. 
1.4 
At the request of the manufacturer, and with approval of the Test Agency, the 
test procedure specific to periodically regenerating systems need not apply to 
a regenerative device if the manufacturer provides data demonstrating that, 
during cycles where regeneration occurs, emissions remain below the 
emissions limits defined by the Gazette Notification for the relevant vehicle 
category. In this case, a fixed Ki value of 1.05 shall be used for CO2 and fuel 
consumption. 
2.0 
Test procedure 
 
The test vehicle shall be capable of inhibiting or permitting the regeneration 
process provided that this operation has no effect on original engine 
calibrations. Prevention of regeneration is only permitted during loading of the 
regeneration system and during the preconditioning cycles. It is not permitted 
during the measurement of emissions during the regeneration phase. The 
emission test shall be carried out with the unchanged, original equipment 
manufacturer's (OEM) control unit. At the request of the manufacturer and with 
agreement of the Test Agency, an "engineering control unit" which has no 
effect on original engine calibrations may be used during Ki determination. 
2.1 
Exhaust emissions measurement between two WLTCs with regeneration 
events 
2.1.1 
The arithmetic average emissions between regeneration events and during 
loading of the regenerative device shall be determined from the arithmetic 
mean of several approximately equidistant (if more than two) Type I tests. As 
an alternative, the manufacturer may provide data to show that the emissions 
remain constant (±15 per cent) on WLTCs between regeneration events. In 
this case, the emissions measured during the Type I test may be used. In any 
other case, emissions measurements for at least two Type I cycles shall be 
completed: one immediately after regeneration (before new loading) and one 



--- PAGE 318 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 318 of 762 
 
as close as possible prior to a regeneration phase. All emissions 
measurements shall be carried out according to this annex and all calculations 
shall be carried out according to paragraph 3. of this appendix. 
2.1.2 
The loading process and 𝐾𝑖 determination shall be made during the Type I 
driving cycle on a chassis dynamometer or on an engine test bench using an 
equivalent test cycle. These cycles may be run continuously (i.e. without the 
need to switch the engine off between cycles). After any number of completed 
cycles, the vehicle may be removed from the chassis dynamometer and the test 
continued at a later time. 
For Class 2 and Class 3 vehicles, at the request of the manufacturer and with 
the agreement of the Test Agency the Ki can be determined with 3 phases. 
Upon request of the manufacturer and with approval of the Test Agency, a 
manufacturer may develop an alternative procedure and demonstrate its 
equivalency, including filter temperature, loading quantity and distance driven. 
This may be done on an engine bench or on a chassis dynamometer. 
2.1.3 
The number of cycles D between two WLTCs where regeneration events occur, 
the number of cycles over which emission measurements are made n and the 
mass emissions measurement 𝑀𝑠𝑖𝑗
′  for each compound i over each cycle j shall 
be recorded. 
2.2 
Measurement of emissions during regeneration events 
2.2.1 
Preparation of the vehicle, if required, for the emissions test during a 
regeneration phase, may be completed using the preconditioning cycles in 
paragraph 2.6. of this annex or equivalent engine test bench cycles, depending 
on the loading procedure chosen in paragraph 2.1.2. of this appendix 
2.2.2 
The test and vehicle conditions for the Type I test described in this Regulation 
apply before the first valid emission test is carried out. 
2.2.3 
Regeneration shall not occur during the preparation of the vehicle. This may 
be ensured by one of the following methods 
(a) 
A "dummy" regenerating system or partial system may be fitted for the 
preconditioning cycles; 
(b) 
Any other method agreed between the manufacturer and the Test 
Agency. 
2.2.4 
A cold start exhaust emissions test including a regeneration process shall be 
performed according to the applicable WLTC. 
2.2.5 
If the regeneration process requires more than one WLTC, each WLTC shall 
be completed. Use of a single particulate sample filter for multiple cycles 
required to complete regeneration is permissible. 
 
If more than one WLTC is required, subsequent WLTC(s) shall be driven 
immediately, without switching the engine off, until complete regeneration has 



--- PAGE 319 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 319 of 762 
 
been achieved. In the case that the number of gaseous emission bags required 
for the multiple cycles would exceed the number of bags available, the time 
necessary to set up a new test shall be as short as possible. The engine shall not 
be switched off during this period. 
2.2.6 
The emission values during regeneration 𝑀𝑟𝑖 for each compound i shall be 
calculated according to paragraph 3. of this appendix. The number of 
applicable test cycles 𝑑 measured for complete regeneration shall be recorded. 
3.0 
Calculations 
3.1 
Calculation of the exhaust and CO2 emissions, and fuel consumption of a single 
regenerative system 
𝑀𝑠𝑖=
∑
𝑀𝑠𝑖𝑗
′
𝑛
𝑗=1
𝑛
 𝑓𝑜𝑟 𝑛≥ 1 
𝑀𝑟𝑖=
∑
𝑀𝑟𝑖𝑗
′
𝑑
𝑗=1
𝑑
 𝑓𝑜𝑟 𝑑≥1 
𝑀𝑝𝑖= 𝑀𝑠𝑖× 𝐷+ 𝑀𝑟𝑖× 𝑑
𝐷+ 𝑑
 
where for each compound i considered: 
𝑀𝑠𝑖𝑗
′
 are the mass emissions of compound i over test cycle j without 
regeneration, g/km; 
𝑀𝑟𝑖𝑗
′
 are the mass emissions of compound i over test cycle j during 
regeneration, g/km (if 𝑑> 1, the first WLTC test shall be run cold and 
subsequent cycles hot); 
𝑀𝑠𝑖 
are the mean mass emissions of compound i without regeneration, g/km; 
𝑀𝑟𝑖 
are the mean mass emissions of compound i during regeneration, g/km; 
𝑀𝑝𝑖 
are the mean mass emissions of compound i, g/km; 
𝑛 
is the number of test cycles, between cycles where regenerative events 
occur, during which emissions measurements on Type I WLTCs are 
made,  1; 
𝑑 
is the number of complete applicable test cycles required for 
regeneration; 
𝐷 
is the number of complete applicable test cycles between two cycles 
where regeneration events occur. 
The calculation of 𝑀𝑝𝑖 is shown graphically in Figure A6.App1/1. 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 320 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 320 of 762 
 
 
Figure A6.App1/1 
Parameters measured during emissions test during and between cycles 
where regeneration occurs (schematic example, the emissions during D 
may increase or decrease) 
 
Number of cycles 
M   ri 
Emission 
D  
d 
( 
) ( 
) 
 
 
( 
) 
d 
D 
d 
M 
D 
M 
M 
ri 
si 
pi 
+ 
 
+ 
 
= 
si 
pi 
i 
M 
M 
K = 
M   pi 
M   si 
M  
, 
sij 
 
 
3.1.1 
Calculation of the regeneration factor 𝐾𝑖 for each compound i considered 
The manufacturer may elect to determine for each compound independently 
either additive offsets or multiplicative factors. 
𝐾𝑖 factor:  𝐾𝑖=
𝑀𝑝𝑖
𝑀𝑠𝑖 
𝐾𝑖 offset: 𝐾𝑖= 𝑀𝑝𝑖−𝑀𝑠𝑖 
𝑀𝑠𝑖, 𝑀𝑝𝑖 and 𝐾𝑖 results, and the manufacturer’s choice of type of factor shall 
be recorded.  
𝐾𝑖 may be determined following the completion of a single regeneration 
sequence comprising measurements before, during and after regeneration 
events as shown in Figure A6.App1/1 
3.2 
Calculation of exhaust and CO2 emissions, and fuel consumption of multiple 
periodically regenerating systems 
 
The following shall be calculated for one Type I operation cycle for criteria 
emissions and for CO2 emissions. The CO2 emissions used for that calculation 
shall be from the result of step 3 described in Table A7/1 of Annex B7. 
 
𝑀𝑠𝑖𝑘=
∑
𝑀𝑠𝑖𝑘,𝑗
′
𝑛𝑘
𝑗=1
𝑛𝑘
 for 𝑛𝑗≥1 
𝑀𝑟𝑖𝑘=
∑
𝑀𝑟𝑖𝑘,𝑗
′
𝑑𝑘
𝑗=1
𝑑𝑘
 𝑓𝑜𝑟 𝑑≥1 



--- PAGE 321 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 321 of 762 
 
𝑀𝑠𝑖= ∑
𝑀𝑠𝑖𝑘
𝑥
𝑘=1
× 𝐷𝑘
∑
𝐷𝑘
𝑥
𝑘=1
 
𝑀𝑟𝑖= ∑
𝑀𝑟𝑖𝑘
𝑥
𝑘=1
× 𝑑𝑘
∑
𝑑𝑘
𝑥
𝑘=1
 
𝑀𝑝𝑖= 𝑀𝑠𝑖× ∑
𝐷𝑘+ 𝑀𝑟𝑖× ∑
𝑑𝑘
𝑥
𝑘=1
𝑥
𝑘=1
∑
(𝐷𝑘+ 𝑑𝑘)
𝑥
𝑘=1
 
𝑀𝑝𝑖= ∑
(𝑀𝑠𝑖𝑘× 𝐷𝑘+ 𝑀𝑟𝑖𝑘× 𝑑𝑘)
𝑥
𝑘=1
∑
(𝐷𝑘+ 𝑑𝑘)
𝑥
𝑘=1
 
𝐾𝑖 factor:  𝐾𝑖=
𝑀𝑝𝑖
𝑀𝑠𝑖 
 
𝐾𝑖 offset: 𝐾𝑖= 𝑀𝑝𝑖−𝑀𝑠𝑖 
 
Where: 
𝑀𝑠𝑖 
are the mean mass emissions of all events k of compound i without 
regeneration, g/km; 
𝑀𝑟𝑖 
are the mean mass emissions of all events k of compound i during 
regeneration, g/km; 
𝑀𝑝𝑖 
are the mean mass emission of all events k of compound i, g/km; 
𝑀𝑠𝑖𝑘 
are the mean mass emissions of event k of compound i without 
regeneration, g/km; 
𝑀𝑟𝑖𝑘 
are the mean mass emissions of event k of compound i during 
regeneration, g/km; 
𝑀𝑠𝑖𝑘,𝑗
′
 are the mass emissions of event k of compound i in g/km without 
regeneration measured at point j where 1 ≤ 𝑗 ≤ 𝑛𝑘, g/km; 
𝑀𝑟𝑖𝑘,𝑗
′
 are the mass emissions of event k of compound i during regeneration 
(when 𝑗 >  1, the first Type I test is run cold, and subsequent cycles 
are hot) measured at test cycle j where 1 ≤ 𝑗 ≤𝑑𝑘, g/km; 
𝑛𝑘 
are the number of complete test cycles of event k, between two cycles 
where 
regenerative 
phases 
occur, 
during 
which 
emissions 
measurements (Type I WLTCs or equivalent engine test bench cycles) 
are made,  2; 
𝑑𝑘 
is the number of complete applicable test cycles of event k required for 
complete regeneration; 
𝐷𝑘 
is the number of complete applicable test cycles of event k between two 
cycles where regenerative phases occur; 



--- PAGE 322 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 322 of 762 
 
𝑥 
is the number of complete regeneration events. 
The calculation of 𝑀𝑝𝑖 is shown graphically in Figure A6.App1/2. 
 
Figure A6.App1/2 
Parameters measured during emissions test during and between cycles 
where regeneration occurs (schematic example) 
 
 
The calculation of 𝐾𝑖 for multiple periodically regenerating systems is only 
possible after a certain number of regeneration events for each system. 
After performing the complete procedure (A to B, see Figure A6.App1/2), the 
original starting condition A should be reached again. 
3.3 
Ki factors and Ki offsets shall be rounded to four places of decimal. For Ki 
offsets, the rounding shall be based on the physical unit of the emission 
standard value. 
 
 



--- PAGE 323 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 323 of 762 
 
 
Annex B6- Appendix 2 
Test Procedure for rechargeable electric energy storage system monitoring 
1.0 
General 
In the case that NOVC-HEVs, OVC-HEVs and NOVC-FCHVs are tested, 
Appendices 2 and 3 to Annex B8 shall apply. 
This appendix defines the specific provisions regarding the correction of test 
results for CO2 mass emission as a function of the energy balance 𝛥𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆 for 
all REESSs. 
The corrected values for CO2 mass emission shall correspond to a zero energy 
balance (𝛥𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆= 0), and shall be calculated using a correction coefficient 
determined as defined below. 
2.0 
Measurement equipment and instrumentation 
2.1 
Current measurement 
 
REESS depletion shall be defined as negative current. 
2.1.1 
The REESS current(s) shall be measured during the tests using a clamp-on or 
closed type current transducer. The current measurement system shall fulfil the 
requirements specified in Table A8/1. The current transducer(s) shall be 
capable of handling the peak currents at engine starts and temperature 
conditions at the point of measurement. 
 
In order to have an accurate measurement, zero adjustment and degaussing 
shall be performed before the test according to the instrument manufacturer's 
instructions. 
2.1.2 
Current transducers shall be fitted to any of the REESS on one of the cables 
connected directly to the REESS and shall include the total REESS current. 
 
In case of shielded wires, appropriate methods shall be applied in accordance 
with the Test Agency. 
 
In order to easily measure REESS current using external measuring equipment, 
manufacturers should preferably integrate appropriate, safe and accessible 
connection points in the vehicle. If this is not feasible, the manufacturer shall 
support the Test Agency by providing the means to connect a current 
transducer to the REESS cables in the manner described above. 
2.1.3 
The measured current shall be integrated over time at a minimum frequency of 
20 Hz, yielding the measured value of Q, expressed in ampere-hours Ah. The 
measured current shall be integrated over time, yielding the measured value of 
Q, expressed in ampere-hours Ah. The integration may be done in the current 
measurement system. 



--- PAGE 324 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 324 of 762 
 
2.2 
Vehicle on-board data 
2.2.1 
Alternatively, the REESS current shall be determined using vehicle-based data. 
In order to use this measurement method, the following information shall be 
accessible from the test vehicle: 
 
(a) 
Integrated charging balance value since last ignition run in Ah; 
 
(b) 
Integrated on-board data charging balance value calculated at a 
minimum sample frequency of 5 Hz; 
 
(c) 
The charging balance value via an OBD connector as described in 
SAE J1962. 
2.2.2 
The accuracy of the vehicle on-board REESS charging and discharging data 
shall be demonstrated by the manufacturer to the Test Agency. 
 
The manufacturer may create a REESS monitoring vehicle family to prove that 
the vehicle on-board REESS charging and discharging data are correct. The 
accuracy of the data shall be demonstrated on a representative vehicle. 
 
The following family criteria shall be valid: 
(a) 
Identical combustion processes (i.e. positive ignition, compression 
 
ignition, two-stroke, four-stroke); 
(b) 
Identical charge and/or recuperation strategy (software REESS data 
module); 
(c) 
On-board data availability; 
(d) 
Identical charging balance measured by REESS data module; 
(e) 
Identical on-board charging balance simulation. 
2.2.3 
All REESS having no influence on CO2 mass emissions shall be excluded from 
monitoring. 
3.0 
REESS energy change-based correction procedure 
3.1 
Measurement of the REESS current shall start at the same time as the test starts 
and shall end immediately after the vehicle has driven the complete driving 
cycle. 
3.2 
The electricity balance Q measured in the electric power supply system shall 
be used as a measure of the difference in the REESS energy content at the end 
of the cycle compared to the beginning of the cycle. The electricity balance 
shall be determined for the total driven WLTC. 
3.3 
Separate values of 𝑄𝑝ℎ𝑎𝑠𝑒 shall be logged over the driven cycle phases. 
3.4 
Correction of CO2 mass emission over the whole cycle  



--- PAGE 325 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 325 of 762 
 
3.4.1 
[ Reserved] 
3.4.2 
The correction shall be applied if ∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆 is negative (corresponding to 
REESS discharging) 
 
At the request of the manufacturer, the correction may be omitted and 
uncorrected values may be used if: 
(a) 
 𝛥𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆 is positive (corresponding to REESS charging); 
(b) 
 the manufacturer can prove to the Test Agency by measurement that 
there is no relation between ∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆 and 𝐶𝑂2 mass emission and 
∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆 and fuel consumption respectively. 
 
 
Table A6.App2/1 
Energy content of fuel 
Fuel 
Petrol 
Diesel 
LPG 
CNG 
Content 
Ethanol/Biodies
el, per cent 
E0 
E5 
E10 E12 
E15 
E20 
reser
ved 
E85 E100 
B0 
reserved 
B7 
B20 B100 
Heat value 
(kWh/l) 
8.92 8.78 8.64 Reserved 8.50 
Reserved 
6.41 5.95 
9.85 
9.79 9.67 8.90 
12.86 x ρ 
kWh/l 
11.39 
kWh/m³ 
fuel density at 15°C (kg/l) 
 
   
Table A6. App 2/2 [ RESERVED] 
 
4.0 
Applying the correction function 
4.1 
To apply the correction function, the electric energy change ∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝑗 of a 
period j of all REESSs shall be calculated from the measured current and the 
nominal voltage: 
 
∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝑗= ∑∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝑗,𝑖
𝑛
𝑖=1
 
where: 
∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝑗,𝑖 is the electric energy change of REESS i during the considered 
period j, Wh; 
and; 
∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝑗,𝑖=
1
3600 × 𝑈𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆× ∫
𝐼(𝑡)𝑗,𝑖
𝑡𝑒𝑛𝑑
𝑡0
𝑑𝑡 



--- PAGE 326 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 326 of 762 
 
 
where: 
𝑈𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆 
is the nominal REESS voltage determined according to IEC 60050-
482, V; 
𝐼(𝑡)𝑗,𝑖 
is the electric current of REESS i during the considered period j, 
determined according to paragraph 2. of this appendix, A; 
𝑡0 
is the time at the beginning of the considered period j, s; 
𝑡𝑒𝑛𝑑 
is the time at the end of the considered period j, s. 
i 
is the index number of the considered REESS; 
n 
is the total amount of REESS; 
j 
is the index number for the considered period, where a period shall 
be any applicable cycle phase, combination of cycle phases and the 
applicable total cycle; 
1
3600 
is the conversion factor from Ws to Wh. 
4.2 
For correction of CO2 mass emission, g/km, combustion process-specific 
Willans factors from Table A6.App2/3 shall be used. 
4.3 
The correction shall be performed and applied for the total cycle and for each 
of its cycle phases separately, and shall be recorded. 
4.4 
For this specific calculation, a fixed electric power supply system alternator 
efficiency shall be used: 
 
𝜂𝑎𝑙𝑡𝑒𝑟𝑛𝑎𝑡𝑜𝑟
=  0.67 𝑓𝑜𝑟 𝑒𝑙𝑒𝑐𝑡𝑟𝑖𝑐 𝑝𝑜𝑤𝑒𝑟 𝑠𝑢𝑝𝑝𝑙𝑦 𝑠𝑦𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑚 𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆 𝑎𝑙𝑡𝑒𝑟𝑛𝑎𝑡𝑜𝑟𝑠  
4.5 
The resulting CO2 mass emission difference for the considered period j due to 
load behaviour of the alternator for charging a REESS shall be calculated using 
the following equation: 
∆𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝑗=  0.0036 × ∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝑗×
1
𝜂𝑎𝑙𝑡𝑒𝑟𝑛𝑎𝑡𝑜𝑟
× 𝑊𝑖𝑙𝑙𝑎𝑛𝑠𝑓𝑎𝑐𝑡𝑜𝑟× 1
𝑑𝑗
 
 
where: 
∆𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝑗 
is the resulting 𝐶𝑂2 mass emission difference of period j, g/km; 
∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝑗 is the REESS energy change of the considered period j calculated 
according to paragraph 4.1. of this appendix, Wh; 
𝑑𝑗 
is the driven distance of the considered period j, km; 



--- PAGE 327 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 327 of 762 
 
j 
is the index number for the considered period, where a period 
shall be any applicable cycle phase, combination of cycle 
phases and the applicable total cycle; 
0.0036 
is the conversion factor from Wh to MJ;  
𝜂𝑎𝑙𝑡𝑒𝑟𝑛𝑎𝑡𝑜𝑟 
is the efficiency of the alternator according to paragraph 4.4. 
of this appendix; 
𝑊𝑖𝑙𝑙𝑎𝑛𝑠𝑓𝑎𝑐𝑡𝑜𝑟 is the combustion process-specific Willans factor as defined in 
Table A6.App2/3, gCO2/MJ; 
4.5.1 
The CO2 values of each phase and the total cycle shall be corrected as follows: 
MCO2,p,3 = (MCO2,p,1 - ΔMCO2,j) 
MCO2,c,3 = (MCO2,c,2 - ΔMCO2,j) 
 
where: 
ΔMCO2,j  is the result from paragraph 4.5. of this appendix for a period  
j, 
g/km. 
4.6 
For the correction of CO2 emission, g/km, the Willans factors in 
Table A6.App2/3 shall be used. 
Table A6. App2/3 
Willans factors 
 
Naturally 
aspirated 
Pressure-charged  
Positive ignition 
Petrol (E0) 
l/MJ 
0.0733 
0.0778 
gCO2/MJ 
175 
186 
Petrol (E5) 
l/MJ 
0.0744 
0.0789 
gCO2/MJ 
174 
185 
Petrol (E10) l/MJ 
0.0756 
0.0803 
 
gCO2/MJ 
174 
184 
Petrol (E12) l/MJ 
Reserved 
Reserved 
 
gCO2/MJ 
Reserved 
Reserved 
Petrol (E15) l/MJ 
Reserved 
Reserved 
 
gCO2/MJ 
Reserved 
Reserved 
Petrol (E20) l/MJ 
Reserved 
Reserved 
 
gCO2/MJ 
Reserved 
Reserved 
CNG (G20) m³/MJ 
0.0719 
0.0764 



--- PAGE 328 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 328 of 762 
 
gCO2/MJ 
129 
137 
LPG 
l/MJ 
0.0950 
0.101 
gCO2/MJ 
155 
164 
E85 
l/MJ 
0.102 
0.108 
gCO2/MJ 
169 
179 
Compression ignition 
Diesel (B0) 
l/MJ 
0.0611 
0.0611 
gCO2/MJ 
161 
161 
Diesel (B7) 
l/MJ 
0.0611 
0.0611 
 
gCO2/MJ 
161 
161 
 
 



--- PAGE 329 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 329 of 762 
 
Annex B6 - Appendix 3 
Calculation of gas energy ratio for gaseous fuels (LPG and NG/biomethane) 
1.0 
Measurement of the mass of gaseous fuel consumed during the Type I test cycle 
 
Measurement of the mass of gas consumed during the cycle shall be done by a 
fuel weighing system capable of measuring the weight of the storage container 
during the test in accordance with the following: 
(a) 
An accuracy of ±2 per cent of the difference between the readings at the 
beginning and at the end of the test or better. 
(b) 
Precautions shall be taken to avoid measurement errors. 
 
Such precautions shall at least include the careful installation of the 
device according to the instrument manufacturer's recommendations and 
to good engineering practice. 
(c) 
Other measurement methods are permitted if an equivalent accuracy can 
be demonstrated. 
2.0 
Calculation of the gas energy ratio 
 
The fuel consumption value shall be calculated from the emissions of 
hydrocarbons, carbon monoxide, and carbon dioxide determined from the 
measurement results assuming that only the gaseous fuel is burned during the 
test. 
The gas ratio of the energy consumed in the cycle shall be determined using the 
following equation: 
𝐺𝑔𝑎𝑠= ( 𝑀𝑔𝑎𝑠 ×  𝑐𝑓 × 104
𝐹𝐶𝑛𝑜𝑟𝑚 × 𝑑𝑖𝑠𝑡 ×  𝜌) 
 
where: 
Ggas is the gas energy ratio, per cent; 
Mgas is the mass of the gaseous fuel consumed during the cycle, kg; 
FCnorm 
is the fuel consumption (l/100km for LPG, m3/100 km for 
NG/biomethane) calculated in accordance with paragraphs 6.6. and 6.7. of 
Annex B7; 
dist is the distance recorded during the cycle, km; 
ρ 
is the gas density: 
ρ = 0.654 kg/m3 for NG/Biomethane; 



--- PAGE 330 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 330 of 762 
 
ρ = 0.538 kg/litre for LPG; 
cf 
is the correction factor, assuming the following values: 
cf = 1 in the case of LPG or G20 reference fuel; 
cf = 0.78 in the case of G25 reference fuel. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 331 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 331 of 762 
 
Annex B7 
Calculations 
1.0 
General requirements 
1.1 
Unless explicitly stated otherwise in Annex B8, all requirements and procedures 
specified in this annex shall apply for NOVC-HEVs, OVC-HEVs, NOVC-
FCHVs and PEVs. 
1.2 
The calculation steps described in paragraph 1.4. of this annex shall be used for 
pure ICE vehicles only. 
1.3 
Rounding of test results 
1.3.1 
Intermediate steps in the calculations shall not be rounded unless intermediate 
rounding is required. 
1.3.2 
The final criteria emission results shall be rounded according to paragraph 6.1.8. 
of this Regulation in one step to the number of places to the right of the decimal 
point indicated by the applicable emission standard plus one additional 
significant figure. 
1.3.3 
The NOx correction factor 𝐾𝐻 shall be reported rounded according to 
paragraph 6.1.8. of this Regulation to two places of decimal. 
1.3.4 
The dilution factor 𝐷𝐹 shall be reported rounded according to paragraph 6.1.8. 
of this Regulation to two places of decimal. 
1.3.5 
For information not related to standards, good engineering judgement shall be 
used. 
1.4 
Stepwise procedure for calculating the final test results for vehicles using 
combustion engines 
 
The results shall be calculated in the order described in Table A7/1. All 
applicable results in the column "Output" shall be recorded. The column 
"Process" describes the paragraphs to be used for calculation or contains 
additional calculations. 
For the purpose of this table, the following nomenclature within the equations 
and results is used: 
c 
complete applicable cycle  
p 
every applicable cycle phase; 
i 
every applicable criteria emission component, without CO2; 
CO2 CO2 emission. 
 
 



--- PAGE 332 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 332 of 762 
 
Table A7/1 
Procedure for calculating final test results 
Step No. 
Source 
Input 
Process 
Output 
1 
Annex 
B6 
Raw test results Mass emissions 
Paragraphs 3. to 3.2.2. inclusive of 
this annex. 
Mi,p,1, g/km; 
MCO2,p,1, 
g/km. 
2 
Output 
step 1 
Mi,p,1, g/km; 
MCO2,p,1, g/km. 
Calculation of combined cycle 
values: 
𝑀𝑖,𝑐,2 =
∑𝑀𝑖,𝑝,1 × 𝑑𝑝
𝑝
∑𝑑𝑝
𝑝
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝑐,2 =
∑𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝑝,1 × 𝑑𝑝
𝑝
∑𝑑𝑝
𝑝
 
where: 
Mi/CO2,c,2 are the emission results 
over the total cycle; 
dp are the driven distances of the 
cycle phases, p. 
Mi,c,2, g/km; 
MCO2,c,2, 
g/km. 
3 
Output 
step 1 
Output 
step 2  
MCO2,p,1, g/km; 
MCO2,c,2, g/km. 
RCB correction 
Appendix 2 to Annex B6. 
MCO2,p,3, 
g/km; 
MCO2,c,3, 
g/km. 
4a 
Output 
step 2 
Output 
step 3 
Mi,c,2, g/km; 
MCO2,c,3, g/km. 
 
Emissions test procedure for all 
vehicles equipped with periodically 
regenerating systems, Ki. 
Annex B6, Appendix 1. 
Mi,c,4 = Ki × Mi,c,2 
or 
Mi,c,4 = Ki + Mi,c,2 
and 
MCO2,c,4 = KCO2 × MCO2,c,3 
or 
Mi,c,4a, g/km; 
MCO2,c,4a, 
g/km. 



--- PAGE 333 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 333 of 762 
 
Table A7/1 
Procedure for calculating final test results 
Step No. 
Source 
Input 
Process 
Output 
4b 
Output 
step 3 
Output 
step 4a 
 
MCO2,p,3, g/km; 
MCO2,c,3, g/km; 
MCO2,c,4a, g/km. 
 
If Ki is applicable, align CO2 phase 
values to the combined cycle value: 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝑝,4 = 𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝑝,3 × 𝐴𝐹𝐾𝑖 
for every cycle phase p; 
where: 
𝐴𝐹𝐾𝑖= 𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝑐,4
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝑐,3
 
If Ki is not applicable: 
MCO2,p,4 = MCO2,p,3 
MCO2,p,4, 
g/km. 
4c 
Output 
step 4a 
 
Mi,c,4a, g/km; 
MCO2,c,4a, g/km. 
 
In the case these values are used for 
the 
purpose 
of 
conformity 
of 
production, the criteria emission 
values and CO2 mass emission 
values shall be multiplied with the 
run-in factor determined according to 
paragraph 8.2.4. of this Regulation: 
Mi,c,4c = RIC (j) × Mi,c,4a 
MCO2,c,4c = RICO2 (j) x MCO2,c,4a 
In the case these values are not used 
for the purpose of conformity of 
production: 
Mi,c,4c = Mi,c,4a 
MCO2,c,4c = MCO2,c,4a 
 
 
Mi,c,4c; 
MCO2,c,4c 
 
5 
Result 
of a 
single 
test. 
 
Output 
step 
4b 
and 4c 
 
MCO2,c,4c, g/km; 
MCO2,p,4, g/km. 
Placeholder for additional 
corrections, if  
applicable.  
Otherwise: 
MCO2,c,5 = MCO2,c,4c 
MCO2,p,5 = MCO2,p,4 
MCO2,c,5, 
g/km; 
MCO2,p,5, 
g/km. 



--- PAGE 334 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 334 of 762 
 
Table A7/1 
Procedure for calculating final test results 
Step No. 
Source 
Input 
Process 
Output 
Mi,c,4c, g/km; 
 
Apply 
deterioration 
factors 
calculated in accordance with Annex 
C4 to the criteria emissions values. 
In the case these values are used for 
the 
purpose 
of 
conformity 
of 
production, the further steps (6 to 10) 
are not required and the output of this 
step is the final result. 
Mi,c,5, g/km; 
 
FEc,5, km/l; 
 
6 
Output 
step 5 
For every test: 
Mi,c,5, g/km; 
MCO2,c,5, g/km; 
MCO2,p,5, g/km. 
Averaging of tests and declared 
value. 
Paragraphs 1.2. to 1.2.3. inclusive of 
Annex B6. 
MCO2,c,6, 
g/km; 
MCO2,p,6, 
g/km. 
MCO2,c,declared, 
g/km. 
7 
Output 
step 6 
MCO2,c,6, g/km; 
MCO2,p,6, g/km. 
MCO2,c,declared, 
g/km. 
Alignment of phase values. 
Paragraph 1.2.4. of Annex B6. 
and: 
MCO2,c,7 = MCO2,c,declared 
MCO2,c,7, 
g/km; 
MCO2,p,7, 
g/km. 
8 
Result 
of a 
Type I 
test for a 
test 
vehicle. 
 
Output 
steps  5 
Output 
steps 7 
 
 
 
Mi,c, 5, g/km; 
MCO2,c,7, g/km; 
MCO2,p,7, g/km. 
 
Calculation of fuel consumption 
according to Paragraph 6 of this 
annex. 
The calculation of fuel consumption 
shall be performed for the applicable 
cycle and its phases separately. For 
that purpose: 
(a)  the applicable phase or cycle 
CO2 values shall be used; 
(b)  the criteria emission over the 
complete cycle shall be used. 
and: 
Mi,c,8 = Mi,c, 5 
FCc,8, 
l/100 
km; 
FCp,8, l/100 
km; 
Mi,c,8, g/km; 
MCO2,c,8, 
g/km; 
MCO2,p,8, 
g/km. 
 



--- PAGE 335 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 335 of 762 
 
Table A7/1 
Procedure for calculating final test results 
Step No. 
Source 
Input 
Process 
Output 
MCO2,c,8 = MCO2,c,7 
MCO2,p,8 = MCO2,p,7 
9 
Interpol
ation 
family 
result. 
 
Final 
criteria 
emissio
n result 
Output 
step 8 
For each of the 
test vehicles H 
and L: 
Mi,c,8, g/km; 
MCO2,c,8, g/km; 
MCO2,p,8, g/km; 
FCc,8, l/100 km; 
FCp,8, l/100 km; 
 
If in addition to a test vehicle H a test 
vehicle L and, if applicable vehicle 
M was also tested, the resulting 
criteria emission value shall be the 
highest of the two or, if applicable, 
three values and referred to as Mi,c. .  
In the case of the combined THC + 
NO x emissions, the highest value of 
the sum referring to either the VH or 
VL is to be used. 
Otherwise, if no vehicle L was tested,  
 
Mi,c = Mi,c,8 
For CO2 and FC, the values derived 
in step 8 shall be used, and CO2 
values shall be rounded according to 
paragraph 6.1.8. of this Regulation to 
two places of decimal, and FC values 
shall be rounded according to 
paragraph 6.1.8. of this Regulation to 
three places of decimal. 
Mi,c, g/km; 
MCO2,c,H, 
g/km; 
MCO2,p,H, 
g/km; 
FCc,H, l/100 
km; 
FCp,H, l/100 
km; 
and 
if 
a 
vehicle 
L 
was tested: 
MCO2,c,L, 
g/km; 
MCO2,p,L, 
g/km; 
FCc,L, l/100 
km; 
FCp,L, l/100 
km; 
10 
Result 
of an 
individu
al 
vehicle. 
Final 
CO2 and 
Output 
step 9 
MCO2,c,H, g/km; 
MCO2,p,H, g/km; 
FCc,H, l/100 km; 
FCp,H, l/100 km; 
 
Fuel consumption and CO2 
calculations for individual vehicles 
in an interpolation family. 
Paragraph 3.2.3. of this annex. 
Fuel consumption and CO2 
calculations for individual vehicles 
in a road load matrix family 
MCO2,c,ind 
g/km; 
MCO2,p,ind, 
g/km; 
FCc,ind l/100 
km; 



--- PAGE 336 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 336 of 762 
 
Table A7/1 
Procedure for calculating final test results 
Step No. 
Source 
Input 
Process 
Output 
FC 
result. 
and if a vehicle 
L was tested: 
MCO2,c,L, g/km; 
MCO2,p,L, g/km; 
FCc,L, l/100 km; 
FCp,L, l/100 km. 
 
Paragraph 3.2.4. of this annex. 
CO2 emissions shall be expressed in 
grams per kilometre (g/km) rounded 
to the nearest whole number; 
FC values shall be rounded 
according to paragraph 6.1.8. of this 
Regulation to one place of decimal, 
expressed in (l/100 km) ; 
FCp,ind, l/100 
km  
 
2.0 
Determination of diluted exhaust gas volume 
2.1 
Volume calculation for a variable dilution device capable of operating at a 
constant or variable flow rate 
 
The volumetric flow shall be measured continuously. The total volume shall 
be measured for the duration of the test. 
2.2 
Volume calculation for a variable dilution device using a positive 
displacement pump 
2.2.1 
The volume shall be calculated using the following equation: 
 
𝑉= 𝑉0 × 𝑁 
 
where: 
𝑉 is the volume of the diluted gas, in litres per test (prior to correction); 
𝑉0 is the volume of gas delivered by the positive displacement pump in 
testing conditions, litres per pump revolution; 
𝑁 is the number of revolutions per test. 
2.2.1.1 
Correcting the volume to standard conditions 
 
The diluted exhaust gas volume, V, shall be corrected to standard conditions 
according to the following equation: 
𝑉𝑚𝑖𝑥= 𝑉× 𝐾1 × (𝑃𝐵−𝑃1
𝑇𝑝
) 
where: 



--- PAGE 337 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 337 of 762 
 
𝐾1 =
273.15 (𝐾)
101.325 (𝑘𝑃𝑎) = 2.6961 
𝑃𝐵 is the test room barometric pressure, kPa; 
𝑃1 is the vacuum at the inlet of the positive displacement pump relative to 
the ambient barometric pressure, kPa; 
𝑇𝑝 is the arithmetic average temperature of the diluted exhaust gas entering 
the positive displacement pump during the test, Kelvin (K). 
3.0 
Mass emissions 
3.1 
General requirements 
3.1.1 
Assuming no compressibility effects, all gases involved in the engine's 
intake, combustion and exhaust processes may be considered to be ideal 
according to Avogadro’s hypothesis. 
3.1.2 
The mass 𝑀 of gaseous compounds emitted by the vehicle during the test 
shall be determined by the product of the volumetric concentration of the 
gas in question and the volume of the diluted exhaust gas with due regard 
for the following densities under the reference conditions of 273.15 K (0 °C) 
and 101.325 kPa: 
 
Carbon monoxide (CO) 
𝜌= 1.25 g/l 
Carbon dioxide (CO2) 𝜌= 1.964 g/l 
Hydrocarbons: 
for petrol (E0) (C1H1.85) 
𝜌= 0.619 g/1 
for petrol (E5) (C1H1.89O0.016) 𝜌= 0.632 g/1 
for petrol (E10) (C1H1.93 O0.033) 
𝜌= 0.646 g/l 
for petrol (E12) (CxHx.xx Ox.xxx) 
𝜌= 𝑅𝑒𝑠𝑒𝑟𝑣𝑒𝑑 
for petrol (E15) (CxHx.xx Ox.xxx) 
𝜌= 𝑅𝑒𝑠𝑒𝑟𝑣𝑒𝑑 
 
for petrol (E20) (CxHx.xx Ox.xxx) 
𝜌= 𝑅𝑒𝑠𝑒𝑟𝑣𝑒𝑑 
for diesel (B0) (C1Hl.86) 
𝜌= 0.620 g/1 
for diesel (B7) (C1H1.86O0.007) 
𝜌= 0.625 g/l 
for LPG (C1H2.525) 
𝜌= 0.649 g/l 
for NG/biomethane (CH4) 
𝜌= 0.716 g/l 



--- PAGE 338 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 338 of 762 
 
for ethanol (E85) (C1H2.74O0.385) 
𝜌= 0.934 g/l 
Nitrogen oxides (NOx) 
𝜌= 2.05 g/1 
The density for NMHC mass calculations shall be equal to that of total 
hydrocarbons at 273.15 K (0 °C) and 101.325 kPa, and is fuel-dependent. 
The density for propane mass calculations (see paragraph 3.5. of Annex B5) 
is 1.967 g/l at standard conditions. 
If a fuel type is not listed in this paragraph, the density of that fuel shall be 
calculated using the equation given in paragraph 3.1.3. of this annex. 
3.1.3 
The general equation for the calculation of total hydrocarbon density for 
each reference fuel with a mean composition of CXHYOZ is as follows: 
 
𝜌𝑇𝐻𝐶=
𝑀𝑊𝑐 + 𝐻
𝐶× 𝑀𝑊𝐻 + 𝑂
𝐶× 𝑀𝑊𝑂
𝑉𝑀
 
where: 
ρTHC 
is the density of total hydrocarbons and non-methane 
hydrocarbons, g/l; 
MWC 
is the molar mass of carbon (12.011 g/mol); 
MWH 
is the molar mass of hydrogen (1.008 g/mol); 
MWO 
is the molar mass of oxygen (15.999 g/mol); 
VM 
is the molar volume of an ideal gas at 273.15 K (0° C) and 101.325 
kPa (22.413 l/mol); 
H/C 
is the hydrogen to carbon ratio for a specific fuel CXHYOZ; 
O/C 
is the oxygen to carbon ratio for a specific fuel CXHYOZ. 
3.2 
Mass emissions calculation 
3.2.1 
Mass emissions of gaseous compounds per cycle phase shall be calculated 
using the following equations: 
 
𝑀𝑖,𝑝ℎ𝑎𝑠𝑒= 𝑉𝑚𝑖𝑥,𝑝ℎ𝑎𝑠𝑒× 𝜌𝑖× 𝐾𝐻𝑝ℎ𝑎𝑠𝑒× 𝐶𝑖,𝑝ℎ𝑎𝑠𝑒× 10−6
𝑑𝑝ℎ𝑎𝑠𝑒
 
 
where: 
 
𝑀𝑖 
is the mass emission of compound i per test or phase, g/km; 
𝑉𝑚𝑖𝑥 
is the volume of the diluted exhaust gas per test or phase expressed 
in litres per test/phase and corrected to standard conditions 
(273.15 K(0 °C) and 101.325 kPa); 



--- PAGE 339 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 339 of 762 
 
𝜌𝑖 
is the density of compound i in grams per litre at standard 
temperature and pressure (273.15 K (0 °C) and 101.325 kPa); 
𝐾𝐻 
is a humidity correction factor applicable only to the mass emissions 
of oxides of nitrogen, NO2 and NOx, per test or phase; 
𝐶𝑖 
is the concentration of compound i per test or phase in the diluted 
exhaust gas expressed in ppm and corrected by the amount of 
compound i contained in the dilution air; 
𝑑 
is the distance driven over the applicable WLTC, km; 
n 
is the number of phases of the applicable WLTC. 
3.2.1.1 
The concentration of a gaseous compound in the diluted exhaust gas shall 
be corrected by the amount of the gaseous compound in the dilution air using 
the following equation: 
 
𝐶𝑖= 𝐶𝑒−𝐶𝑑× (1 −1
𝐷𝐹) 
where: 
𝐶𝑖 
is the concentration of gaseous compound i in the diluted exhaust gas 
corrected by the amount of gaseous compound i contained in the 
dilution air, ppm; 
𝐶𝑒 
is the measured concentration of gaseous compound i in the diluted 
exhaust gas, ppm; 
𝐶𝑑 
is the concentration of gaseous compound i in the dilution air, ppm; 
𝐷𝐹 is the dilution factor. 
3.2.1.1.1 
The dilution factor 𝐷𝐹 shall be calculated using the equation for the 
concerned fuel (as applicable): 
 
𝐷𝐹= 
13.4
𝐶𝐶𝑂2+(𝐶𝐻𝐶+𝐶𝐶𝑂)×10−4 for petrol (E5, E10) and diesel (B0) 
𝐷𝐹= 
13.5
𝐶𝐶𝑂2+(𝐶𝐻𝐶+𝐶𝐶𝑂)×10−4 
for petrol (E0) 
𝐷𝐹= 𝑅𝑒𝑠𝑒𝑟𝑣𝑒𝑑  
for petrol (E12) 
𝐷𝐹= 𝑅𝑒𝑠𝑒𝑟𝑣𝑒𝑑  
for petrol (E15) 
𝐷𝐹= 𝑅𝑒𝑠𝑒𝑟𝑣𝑒𝑑  
for petrol (E20) 
 
𝐷𝐹= 
13.5
𝐶𝐶𝑂2+(𝐶𝐻𝐶+𝐶𝐶𝑂)×10−4 
for diesel (B7) 



--- PAGE 340 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 340 of 762 
 
𝐷𝐹= 
11.9
𝐶𝐶𝑂2+(𝐶𝐻𝐶+𝐶𝐶𝑂)×10−4 
for LPG  
𝐷𝐹= 
9.5
𝐶𝐶𝑂2+(𝐶𝐻𝐶+𝐶𝐶𝑂)×10−4 
for NG/biomethane 
𝐷𝐹= 
12.5
𝐶𝐶𝑂2+(𝐶𝐻𝐶+𝐶𝐶𝑂)×10−4 
for ethanol (E85) 
𝐷𝐹= 
35.03
𝐶𝐻2𝑂−𝐶𝐻2𝑂−𝐷𝐴+𝐶𝐻2×10−4 
for hydrogen 
With respect to the equation for hydrogen: 
CH2O 
is the concentration of H2O in the diluted exhaust gas contained in 
the sample bag, per cent volume; 
CH2O-DA is the concentration of H2O in the dilution air, per cent volume; 
CH2 
is the concentration of H2 in the diluted exhaust gas contained in 
the sample bag, ppm. 
If a fuel type is not listed in this paragraph, the DF for that fuel shall be 
calculated using the equations in paragraph 3.2.1.1.2. of this annex. 
If the manufacturer uses a DF that covers several phases, it shall calculate a 
DF using the mean concentration of gaseous compounds for the phases 
concerned. 
The mean concentration of a gaseous compound shall be calculated using 
the following equation: 
𝐶𝑖̅ =
∑
(𝐶𝑖,𝑝ℎ𝑎𝑠𝑒× 𝑉𝑚𝑖𝑥,𝑝ℎ𝑎𝑠𝑒)
𝑛
𝑝ℎ𝑎𝑠𝑒=1
∑
𝑉𝑚𝑖𝑥,𝑝ℎ𝑎𝑠𝑒
𝑛
𝑝ℎ𝑎𝑠𝑒=1
 
where: 
𝐶𝑖̅ 
is mean concentration of a gaseous compound; 
𝐶𝑖,𝑝ℎ𝑎𝑠𝑒 
is the concentration of each phase; 
𝑉𝑚𝑖𝑥,𝑝ℎ𝑎𝑠𝑒 is the Vmix of the corresponding phase; 
n 
is the number of phases. 
3.2.1.1.2 
The general equation for calculating the dilution factor DF for each 
reference fuel with an arithmetic average composition of CxHyOz is as 
follows: 
 
𝐷𝐹= 
𝑋
𝐶𝐶𝑂2 + (𝐶𝐻𝐶+ 𝐶𝐶𝑂) × 10−4 



--- PAGE 341 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 341 of 762 
 
where: 
𝑋= 100 ×
𝑥
𝑥+ 𝑦
2 + 3.76 (𝑥+ 𝑦
4 −𝑧
2)
 
𝐶𝐶𝑂2 is the concentration of CO2 in the diluted exhaust gas contained in the 
sample bag, per cent volume; 
𝐶𝐻𝐶 
is the concentration of HC in the diluted exhaust gas contained in the 
sample bag, ppm carbon equivalent; 
𝐶𝐶𝑂 
is the concentration of CO in the diluted exhaust gas contained in the 
sample bag, ppm. 
3.2.1.1.3 
Methane measurement 
3.2.1.1.3.1 
For methane measurement using a GC-FID, NMHC shall be calculated 
using the following equation: 
 
𝐶𝑁𝑀𝐻𝐶= 𝐶𝑇𝐻𝐶−(𝑅𝑓𝐶𝐻4 × 𝐶𝐶𝐻4) 
where: 
𝐶𝑁𝑀𝐻𝐶 is the corrected concentration of NMHC in the diluted exhaust gas, 
ppm carbon equivalent; 
𝐶𝑇𝐻𝐶 
is the concentration of THC in the diluted exhaust gas, ppm carbon 
equivalent and corrected by the amount of THC contained in the 
dilution air; 
𝐶𝐶𝐻4 
is the concentration of 𝐶𝐻4 in the diluted exhaust gas, ppm carbon 
equivalent and corrected by the amount of 𝐶𝐻4contained in the 
dilution air; 
𝑅𝑓𝐶𝐻4 is the FID response factor to methane determined and specified in 
paragraph 5.4.3.2. of Annex B5. 
3.2.1.1.3.2 
For methane measurement using an NMC-FID, the calculation of NMHC 
depends on the calibration gas/method used for the zero/calibration 
adjustment. 
The FID used for the THC measurement (without NMC) shall be calibrated 
with propane/air in the normal manner.  
For the calibration of the FID in series with an NMC, the following methods 
are permitted: 
(a) 
 
The calibration gas consisting of propane/air bypasses the NMC; 
(b) 
 
The calibration gas consisting of methane/air passes through the 
NMC. 



--- PAGE 342 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 342 of 762 
 
It is highly recommended to calibrate the methane FID with methane/air 
through the NMC.  
In case (a), the concentration of CH4 and NMHC shall be calculated using 
the following equations: 
 𝐶𝐶𝐻4 = 𝐶𝐻𝐶(𝑤/𝑁𝑀𝐶) −𝐶𝐻𝐶(𝑤/𝑜𝑁𝑀𝐶) × (1 −𝐸𝐸)
𝑅𝑓𝐶𝐻4 × (𝐸𝐸−𝐸𝑀)
 
 
𝐶𝑁𝑀𝐻𝐶=
𝐶𝐻𝐶(
𝑤
𝑜𝑁𝑀𝐶) × (1 −𝐸𝑀) −𝐶𝐻𝐶( 𝑤
𝑁𝑀𝐶)
𝐸𝐸−𝐸𝑀
 
If RfCH4 < 1.05, it may be omitted from the equation above for CCH4. 
In case (b), the concentration of CH4 and NMHC shall be calculated using 
the following equations: 
𝐶𝐶𝐻4 = 𝐶𝐻𝐶(𝑤/𝑁𝑀𝐶) × 𝑅𝑓𝐶𝐻4 × (1 −𝐸𝑀) −𝐶𝐻𝐶(𝑤/𝑜𝑁𝑀𝐶) × (1 −𝐸𝐸)
𝑅𝑓𝐶𝐻4 × (𝐸𝐸−𝐸𝑀)
 
𝐶𝑁𝑀𝐻𝐶=
𝐶𝐻𝐶(
𝑤
𝑜𝑁𝑀𝐶) × (1 −𝐸𝑀) −𝐶𝐻𝐶( 𝑤
𝑁𝑀𝐶) × 𝑅𝑓𝐶𝐻4 × (1 −𝐸𝑀)
𝐸𝐸−𝐸𝑀
 
where: 
𝐶𝐻𝐶(𝑤/𝑁𝑀𝐶) 
is the HC concentration with sample gas flowing through the 
NMC, ppm C; 
𝐶𝐻𝐶(𝑤/𝑜𝑁𝑀𝐶) is the HC concentration with sample gas bypassing the NMC, 
ppm C; 
RfCH4 
is the methane response factor as determined per 
paragraph 5.4.3.2. of Annex B5;  
𝐸𝑀 
is 
the 
methane 
efficiency 
as 
determined 
per 
paragraph 3.2.1.1.3.3.1. of this annex; 
𝐸𝐸 
is 
the 
ethane 
efficiency 
as 
determined 
per 
paragraph 3.2.1.1.3.3.2. of this annex. 
If 𝑅𝑓𝐶𝐻4 < 1.05, it may be omitted in the equations for case (b) above for 
CCH4 and CNMHC.  
3.2.1.1.3.3 
Conversion efficiencies of the non-methane cutter, NMC 
 
The NMC is used for the removal of the non-methane hydrocarbons from 
the sample gas by oxidizing all hydrocarbons except methane. Ideally, the 
conversion for methane is 0 per cent, and for the other hydrocarbons 
represented by ethane is 100 per cent. For the accurate measurement of 



--- PAGE 343 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 343 of 762 
 
NMHC, the two efficiencies shall be determined and used for the calculation 
of the NMHC emission. 
3.2.1.1.3.3.1 
Methane conversion efficiency, EM 
 
The methane/air calibration gas shall be flowed to the FID through the NMC 
and bypassing the NMC and the two concentrations recorded. The efficiency 
shall be determined using the following equation:  
𝐸𝑀= 1 −
𝐶𝐻𝐶( 𝑤
𝑁𝑀𝐶)
𝐶𝐻𝐶(
𝑤
𝑜𝑁𝑀𝐶)
 
where: 
𝐶𝐻𝐶(𝑤/𝑁𝑀𝐶) 
is the HC concentration with CH4 flowing through the NMC, 
ppm C; 
𝐶𝐻𝐶(𝑤/𝑜𝑁𝑀𝐶) is the HC concentration with CH4 bypassing the NMC, 
ppm C. 
3.2.1.1.3.3.2 
Ethane conversion efficiency, EE 
 
The ethane/air calibration gas shall be flowed to the FID through the NMC 
and bypassing the NMC and the two concentrations recorded. The efficiency 
shall be determined using the following equation:  
𝐸𝐸= 1 −
𝐶𝐻𝐶(𝑤/𝑁𝑀𝐶)
𝐶𝐻𝐶(𝑤/𝑜𝑁𝑀𝐶)
 
where: 
𝐶𝐻𝐶(𝑤/𝑁𝑀𝐶) 
is the HC concentration with C2H6 flowing through the 
NMC, ppm C; 
𝐶𝐻𝐶(𝑤/𝑜𝑁𝑀𝐶) is the HC concentration with C2H6 bypassing the NMC, ppm 
C. 
If the ethane conversion efficiency of the NMC is 0.98 or above, EE shall be 
set to 1 for any subsequent calculation. 
3.2.1.1.3.4 
If the methane FID is calibrated through the cutter, EM shall be 0. 
 
The equation to calculate CCH4 in paragraph 3.2.1.1.3.2. (case (b)) in this 
annex becomes: 
𝐶𝐶𝐻4 = 𝐶𝐻𝐶(𝑤/𝑁𝑀𝐶) 
The equation to calculate CNMHC in paragraph 3.2.1.1.3.2. (case (b)) in 
this annex becomes: 



--- PAGE 344 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 344 of 762 
 
𝐶𝑁𝑀𝐻𝐶= 𝐶𝐻𝐶(𝑤/𝑜𝑁𝑀𝐶) −𝐶𝐻𝐶(𝑤/𝑁𝑀𝐶) × 𝑟ℎ 
The density used for NMHC mass calculations shall be equal to that of total 
hydrocarbons at 273.15 K (0 °C) and 101.325 kPa and is fuel-dependent. 
3.2.1.1.4 
Flow-weighted arithmetic average concentration calculation 
 
The following calculation method shall be applied for CVS systems that are 
not equipped with a heat exchanger or for CVS systems with a heat 
exchanger that do not comply with paragraph 3.3.5.1. of Annex B5. 
 
This flow weighted arithmetic average concentration calculation shall be 
used for all continuous diluted measurements including PN (if applicable). 
It may be optionally applied for CVS systems with a heat exchanger that 
complies with paragraph 3.3.5.1 of Annex B5. 
 
𝐶𝑒=
∑
𝑞𝑉𝐶𝑉𝑆(𝑖)
𝑛
𝑖=1
× ∆𝑡× 𝐶(𝑖)
𝑉
 
where: 
𝐶𝑒 
is the flow-weighted arithmetic average concentration; 
𝑞𝑉𝐶𝑉𝑆(𝑖) 
is the CVS flow rate at time 𝑡= 𝑖× ∆𝑡, m³/sec; 
𝐶(𝑖) 
 is the concentration at time 𝑡= 𝑖× ∆𝑡, ppm; 
∆𝑡 
 sampling interval, s; 
𝑉 
 total CVS volume, m³; 
𝑛 
is the test time, s. 
3.2.1.2 
Calculation of the NOx humidity correction factor 
 
In order to correct the influence of humidity on the results of oxides of 
nitrogen, the following calculations apply: 
𝐾𝐻=
1
1 −0.0329 × (𝐻−10.71) 
where: 
𝐻=
6.211 × 𝑅𝑎× 𝑃𝑑
𝑃𝐵−𝑃𝑑× 𝑅𝑎× 10−2 
and: 
𝐻 
is the specific humidity, grams of water vapour per kilogram dry air; 
𝑅𝑎 
is the relative humidity of the ambient air, per cent; 



--- PAGE 345 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 345 of 762 
 
𝑃𝑑 
is the saturation vapour pressure at ambient temperature, kPa; 
𝑃𝐵 
is the atmospheric pressure in the room, kPa. 
The KH factor shall be calculated for each phase of the test cycle. 
The ambient temperature and relative humidity shall be defined as the 
arithmetic average of the continuously measured values during each phase.  
3.2.2 
Determination of the HC mass emissions from compression-ignition 
engines 
3.2.2.1 
To calculate HC mass emission for compression-ignition engines, the 
arithmetic average HC concentration shall be calculated using the following 
equation: 
 
𝐶𝑒=
∫
𝐶𝐻𝐶
𝑡2
𝑡1
𝑑𝑡
𝑡2 −𝑡1
 
where: 
∫
𝐶𝐻𝐶𝑑𝑡
𝑡2
𝑡1
 is the integral of the recording of the heated FID over the test 
(t1 to t2); 
𝐶𝑒 
is the concentration of HC measured in the diluted exhaust in 
ppm of 𝐶𝑖 and is substituted for 𝐶𝐻𝐶 in all relevant equations.  
3.2.2.1.1 
Dilution air concentration of HC shall be determined from the dilution air 
bags. Correction shall be carried out according to paragraph 3.2.1.1. of this 
annex. 
3.2.3 
Fuel consumption, fuel efficiency and CO2 calculations for individual 
vehicles in an interpolation family 
3.2.3.1 
Fuel consumption, fuel efficiency and CO2 emissions (as applicable) 
without using the interpolation method (i.e. using vehicle H only) 
The CO2 value, as calculated in paragraphs 3.2.1. to 3.2.1.1.2. inclusive of 
this annex, and fuel efficiency/fuel consumption, as calculated according to 
paragraph 6. of this annex, shall be attributed to all individual vehicles in 
the interpolation family and the interpolation method shall not be applicable. 
3.2.3.2 
Fuel consumption, and CO2 emissions (as applicable) using the interpolation 
method 
 
The CO2 emissions and the fuel consumption for each individual vehicle in 
the 
interpolation 
family 
may 
be 
calculated 
according 
to 
paragraphs 3.2.3.2.1. to 3.2.3.2.5. inclusive of this annex.  
3.2.3.2.1 
Fuel consumption and CO2 emissions of test vehicles L and H 



--- PAGE 346 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 346 of 762 
 
 
The mass of CO2 emissions, 𝑀𝐶𝑂2−𝐿, and 𝑀𝐶𝑂2−𝐻 and its phases p, 𝑀𝐶𝑂2−𝐿,𝑝 
and 𝑀𝐶𝑂2−𝐻,𝑝, of test vehicles L and H, used for the following calculations, 
shall be taken from step 9 of Table A7/1. 
 
Fuel consumption values are also taken from step 9 of Table A7/1 and are 
referred to as FCL,p and FCH,p. 
3.2.3.2.2 
Road load calculation for an individual vehicle 
 
In the case that the interpolation family is derived from one or more road 
load families, the calculation of the individual road load shall only be 
performed within the road load family applicable to that individual vehicle. 
3.2.3.2.2.1 
Mass of an individual vehicle 
 
The test masses of vehicles H and L shall be used as input for the 
interpolation method. 
TMind, in kg, shall be the individual test mass of the vehicle according to 
paragraph 3.2.25. of this Regulation.  
If the same test mass is used for test vehicles L and H, the value of 𝑇𝑀𝑖𝑛𝑑 
shall be set to the mass of test vehicle H for the interpolation method. 
3.2.3.2.2.2 
Rolling resistance of an individual vehicle 
3.2.3.2.2.2.1 
The actual RRC values for the selected tyres on test vehicle L, RRL, and test 
vehicle H, RRH, shall be used as input for the interpolation method. See 
paragraph 4.2.2.1. of Annex B4. 
 
If the tyres on the front and rear axles of vehicle L or H have different RRC 
values, the weighted mean of the rolling resistances shall be calculated using 
the equation in paragraph 3.2.3.2.2.2.3. of this annex. 
3.2.3.2.2.2.2 
For the tyres fitted to an individual vehicle, the value of the rolling resistance 
coefficient RRind shall be set to the RRC value of the applicable tyre energy 
efficiency class according to Table A4/2 of Annex B4. 
 
In the case where individual vehicles can be supplied with a complete set of 
standard wheels and tyres and in addition a complete set of snow tyres 
(marked with 3 Peaked Mountain and Snowflake – 3PMS) with or without 
wheels, the additional wheels/tyres shall not be considered as optional 
equipment. 
If the tyres on the front and rear axles belong to different energy efficiency 
classes, the weighted mean shall be used and calculated using the equation 
in paragraph 3.2.3.2.2.2.3. of this annex. 
If the same tyres, or tyres with the same rolling resistance coefficient were 
fitted to test vehicles L and H, the value of 𝑅𝑅𝑖𝑛𝑑 for the interpolation 
method shall be set to 𝑅𝑅𝐻. 



--- PAGE 347 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 347 of 762 
 
3.2.3.2.2.2.3 
Calculating the weighted mean of the rolling resistances 
 
𝑅𝑅𝑥 = (𝑅𝑅𝑥,𝐹𝐴× 𝑚𝑝𝑥,𝐹𝐴) + (𝑅𝑅𝑥,𝑅𝐴× (1 −𝑚𝑝𝑥,𝐹𝐴)) 
where: 
𝑥 
represents vehicle L, H or an individual vehicle. 
𝑅𝑅𝐿,𝐹𝐴 and RRH,FA 
are the actual RRCs of the front axle tyres on vehicles 
L and H respectively, kg/tonne; 
𝑅𝑅𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝐹𝐴 
is the RRC value of the applicable tyre energy 
efficiency class according to Table A4/2 of Annex B4 
of the front axle tyres on the individual vehicle, 
kg/tonne; 
 
RRL,RA, and RRH,RA are the actual RRCs of the rear axle tyres on vehicles 
L and H respectively, kg/tonne;  
RRind,RA 
is the RRC value of the applicable tyre energy 
efficiency class according to Table A4/2 of Annex B4 
of the rear axle tyres on the individual vehicle, 
kg/tonne; 
𝑚𝑝𝑥,𝐹𝐴 
is the proportion of the vehicle mass in running order 
on the front axle; 
RRx shall not be rounded or categorised to tyre energy efficiency classes. 
3.2.3.2.2.3 
Aerodynamic drag of an individual vehicle 
3.2.3.2.2.3.1 
Determination of aerodynamic influence of optional equipment 
 
The aerodynamic drag shall be measured for each of the aerodynamic drag-
influencing items of optional equipment and body shapes in a wind tunnel 
fulfilling the requirements of paragraph 3.2. of Annex B4 verified by the 
Test Agency. 
For the purpose of the interpolation method, the aerodynamic drag of 
optional equipment within one road load family shall be measured at the 
same wind speed, either vlow or vhigh, preferably vhigh, as defined in 
paragraph 6.4.3. of Annex B4. In the case that vlow or vhigh does not exist, 
(e.g. the road load of VL and/or VH are measured using the coastdown 
method), the aerodynamic force shall be measured at the same wind speed 
within the range ≥ 80 km/h and ≤ 150 km/h. For Class 1 vehicles, it shall be 
measured at the same wind speed of ≤ 150 km/h. 
3.2.3.2.2.3.2 
Alternative method for determination of aerodynamic influence of optional 
equipment. 
 
At the request of the manufacturer and with approval of the Test Agency, an 
alternative method (e.g. CFD simulation , wind tunnel not fulfilling the 



--- PAGE 348 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 348 of 762 
 
criteria in Annex 4) may be used to determine Δ(CD×Af) if the following 
criteria are fulfilled: 
(a) 
 
The alternative method shall fulfil an accuracy for Δ(CD×Af) of 
±0.015 m². 
 
In the case that CFD simulation is used, the accuracy of the CFD 
method shall be validated by at least two Δ(CD×Af) per types of 
optional equipment from a common baseline vehicle body and at 
least a total of eight Δ(CD×Af) as shown in the example in Figure 
A7/1a; 
(b) 
 
The alternative method shall only be used for types of 
aerodynamic-influencing optional equipment (e.g. wheels, 
cooling air control systems, spoilers etc.) for which equivalency 
has been demonstrated; 
 
(c) 
 
Evidence of equivalency outlined in (a) and (b) shall be shown to 
the Test Agency in advance of the type approval for the road load 
family. For any alternative method, validation shall be based on 
wind tunnel measurements fulfilling the criteria of this 
Regulation; 
(d) 
 
If the Δ(CD × Af) of a particular item of optional equipment is 
more than double the Δ(CD × Af) of the optional equipment for 
which the evidence was provided, aerodynamic drag shall not be 
determined by the alternative method; and 
(e) 
 
Revalidation is necessary every four years in the case that a 
measurement method is used. In the case that a mathematical 
method is used, any change made to a simulation model or to the 
software likely to invalidate the validation report also requires 
revalidation. 
 
Figure A7/1a (as applicable) 
Example of application of the alternative method for determination of 
aerodynamic influence of optional equipment 



--- PAGE 349 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 349 of 762 
 
 
3.2.3.2.2.3.2.1 The manufacturer shall submit the declared scope of applicable vehicles for 
the alternative method and the declared scope shall be documented to 
relevant test reports when evidence of equivalency is shown to the Test 
Agency. The Test Agency may request the confirmation of equivalency for 
the alternative method by selecting the vehicle from the scope declared by 
the manufacturer after equivalency was demonstrated. The result shall fulfil 
an accuracy for Δ(CD×Af) of ±0.015 m². This procedure shall be based on 
wind tunnel measurements fulfilling the criteria of this Regulation. If this 
procedure is not satisfied, the approval of the alternative method is regarded 
as invalidated 
3.2.3.2.2.3.3 
Application of aerodynamic influence on the individual vehicle 
 
∆(𝐶𝐷× 𝐴𝑓)𝑖𝑛𝑑 is the difference in the product of the aerodynamic drag 
coefficient multiplied by frontal area between an individual vehicle and test 
vehicle L due to options and body shapes on the vehicle that differ from 
those of test vehicle L, m2; 
These differences in aerodynamic drag, Δ(CD×Af), shall be determined with 
an accuracy of ±0.015 m². 
Δ(CD×Af)ind may be calculated according to the following equation 
maintaining the accuracy of ±0.015 m² also for the sum of items of optional 
equipment and body shapes: 
∆(𝐶𝐷× 𝐴𝑓)𝑖𝑛𝑑= ∑∆(𝐶𝐷× 𝐴𝑓)𝑖
𝑛
𝑖=1
 
where: 
𝐶𝐷 
is the aerodynamic drag coefficient; 



--- PAGE 350 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 350 of 762 
 
𝐴𝑓 
is the frontal area of the vehicle, m2; 
 
𝑛 
is the number of items of optional equipment on the vehicle 
that are different between an individual vehicle and test 
vehicle L; 
∆(𝐶𝐷× 𝐴𝑓)𝑖 is the difference in the product of the aerodynamic drag 
coefficient multiplied by frontal area due to an individual 
feature, i, on the vehicle and is positive for an item of 
optional equipment that adds aerodynamic drag with respect 
to test vehicle L and vice versa, m2. 
The sum of all Δ(CD×Af)i differences between test vehicles L and H shall 
correspond to Δ(CD×Af)LH. 
3.2.3.2.2.3.4 
Definition of complete aerodynamic delta between test vehicles L and H 
 
The total difference of the aerodynamic drag coefficient multiplied by 
frontal area between test vehicles L and H shall be referred to as Δ(CD×Af)LH 
and shall be recorded, m². 
3.2.3.2.2.3.5 
Documentation of aerodynamic influences 
 
The increase or decrease of the product of the aerodynamic drag coefficient 
multiplied by frontal area expressed as Δ(CD×Af) for all items of optional 
equipment and body shapes in the interpolation family that: 
(a) 
 
have an influence on the aerodynamic drag of the vehicle; and 
(b) 
 
are to be included in the interpolation, 
shall be recorded, m². 
3.2.3.2.2.3.6 
Additional provisions for aerodynamic influences 
 
The aerodynamic drag of vehicle H shall be applied to the whole 
interpolation family and Δ(CD×Af)LH shall be set to zero, if: 
(a) 
 
the wind tunnel facility is not able to accurately determine 
Δ(CD×Af); or 
(b) 
 
there are no drag-influencing items of optional equipment 
between the test vehicles H and L that are to be included in the 
interpolation method. 
3.2.3.2.2.4 
Calculation of road load coefficients for individual vehicles 
 
The road load coefficients 𝑓0, 𝑓1 and 𝑓2 (as defined in Annex B4) for test 
vehicles H and L are referred to as 𝑓0,𝐻, 𝑓1,𝐻 and 𝑓2,𝐻,and 𝑓0,𝐿, 𝑓1,𝐿 and 𝑓2,𝐿 
respectively. An adjusted road load curve for the test vehicle L is defined as 
follows: 



--- PAGE 351 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 351 of 762 
 
𝐹𝐿(𝑣) = 𝑓0,𝐿
∗+ 𝑓1,𝐻× 𝑣+ 𝑓2,𝐿
∗× 𝑣2 
 
Applying the least squares regression method in the range of the reference 
speed points, adjusted road load coefficients 𝑓0,𝐿
∗ and 𝑓2,𝐿
∗ shall be determined 
for 𝐹𝐿(𝑣) with the linear coefficient 𝑓1,𝐿
∗ set to 𝑓1,𝐻. The road load 
coefficients 𝑓0,𝑖𝑛𝑑, 𝑓1,𝑖𝑛𝑑 and 𝑓2,𝑖𝑛𝑑 for an individual vehicle in the 
interpolation family shall be calculated using the following equations: 
𝑓0,𝑖𝑛𝑑= 𝑓0,𝐻−∆𝑓0 ×
(𝑇𝑀𝐻× 𝑅𝑅𝐻−𝑇𝑀𝑖𝑛𝑑× 𝑅𝑅𝑖𝑛𝑑)
(𝑇𝑀𝐻× 𝑅𝑅𝐻−𝑇𝑀𝐿× 𝑅𝑅𝐿)  
or, if (𝑇𝑀𝐻× 𝑅𝑅𝐻−𝑇𝑀𝐿× 𝑅𝑅𝐿) = 0, the equation for f0,ind below shall 
apply: 
𝑓0,𝑖𝑛𝑑= 𝑓0,𝐻−∆𝑓0 
𝑓1,𝑖𝑛𝑑= 𝑓1,𝐻 
𝑓2,𝑖𝑛𝑑= 𝑓2,𝐻−∆𝑓2
(∆[𝐶𝐷× 𝐴𝑓]𝐿𝐻−∆[𝐶𝑑× 𝐴𝑓]𝑖𝑛𝑑)
(∆[𝐶𝐷× 𝐴𝑓]𝐿𝐻)
 
or, if 𝛥(𝐶𝐷× 𝐴𝑓)𝐿𝐻= 0, the equation for F2,ind below shall apply: 
𝑓2,𝑖𝑛𝑑= 𝑓2,𝐻−∆𝑓2 
where: 
∆𝑓0 = 𝑓0,𝐻− 𝑓0,𝐿
∗ 
∆𝑓2 = 𝑓2,𝐻− 𝑓2,𝐿
∗ 
 
In the case of a road load matrix family, the road load coefficients f0, f1 and 
f2 for an individual vehicle shall be calculated according to the equations in 
paragraph 5.1.1. of Annex B4. 
3.2.3.2.3 
Calculation of cycle energy demand 
 
The cycle energy demand of the applicable WLTC Ek and the energy 
demand for all applicable cycle phases 𝐸𝑘,𝑝 shall be calculated according to 
the procedure in paragraph 5. of this annex for the following sets k of road 
load coefficients and masses: 
k=1:  
𝑓0 = 𝑓0,𝐿
∗, 𝑓1 = 𝑓1,𝐻, 𝑓2 = 𝑓2,𝐿
∗, 𝑚= 𝑇𝑀𝐿  
(test vehicle L) 
k=2: 
𝑓0 = 𝑓0,𝐻, 𝑓1 = 𝑓1,𝐻, 𝑓2 = 𝑓2,𝐻, 𝑚= 𝑇𝑀𝐻  
(test vehicle H) 



--- PAGE 352 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 352 of 762 
 
k=3: 
𝑓0 = 𝑓0,𝑖𝑛𝑑, 𝑓1 = 𝑓1,𝐻, 𝑓2 = 𝑓2,𝑖𝑛𝑑, 𝑚= 𝑇𝑀𝑖𝑛𝑑 
(an individual vehicle in the interpolation family) 
These three sets of road loads may be derived from different road load 
families. 
3.2.3.2.4 
Calculation of the CO2 value for an individual vehicle within an 
interpolation family using the interpolation method 
 
For each cycle phase p of the applicable cycle the mass of CO2 emissions 
g/km, for an individual vehicle shall be calculated using the following 
equation: 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2−𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝑝= 𝑀𝐶𝑂2−𝐿,𝑝+ (𝐸3,𝑝−𝐸1,𝑝
𝐸2,𝑝−𝐸1,𝑝
) × (𝑀𝐶𝑂2−𝐻,𝑝−𝑀𝐶𝑂2−𝐿,𝑝) 
The mass of CO2 emissions, g/km, over the complete cycle for an individual 
vehicle shall be calculated using the following equation: 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2−𝑖𝑛𝑑= 𝑀𝐶𝑂2−𝐿+ (𝐸3 −𝐸1
𝐸2 −𝐸1
) × (𝑀𝐶𝑂2−𝐻−𝑀𝐶𝑂2−𝐿) 
The terms E1,p, E2,p and E3,p and E1, E2 and E3 respectively shall be calculated 
as specified in paragraph 3.2.3.2.3. of this annex. 
3.2.3.2.5 
Calculation of the fuel consumption FC value for an individual vehicle 
within an interpolation family using the interpolation method 
 
For each cycle phase p of the applicable cycle, the fuel consumption, l/100 
km, for an individual vehicle shall be calculated using the following 
equation: 
𝐹𝐶𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝑝= 𝐹𝐶𝐿,𝑝+ (𝐸3,𝑝−𝐸1,𝑝
𝐸2,𝑝−𝐸1,𝑝
) × (𝐹𝐶𝐻,𝑝−𝐹𝐶𝐿,𝑝) 
The fuel consumption, l/100 km, of the complete cycle for an individual 
vehicle shall be calculated using the following equation: 
𝐹𝐶𝑖𝑛𝑑= 𝐹𝐶𝐿+ (𝐸3 −𝐸1
𝐸2 −𝐸1
) × (𝐹𝐶𝐻−𝐹𝐶𝐿) 
The terms E1,p, E2,p and E3,p, and E1, E2 and E3 respectively shall be 
calculated as specified in paragraph 3.2.3.2.3. of this annex. 
3.2.3.2.6 
The individual CO2 value determined in paragraph 3.2.3.2.4. of this annex 
may be increased by the original equipment manufacturer (OEM). In such 
cases: 
 
(a) 
 
The CO2 phase values shall be increased by the ratio of the 
increased CO2 value divided by the calculated CO2 value; 



--- PAGE 353 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 353 of 762 
 
(b) 
 
The fuel consumption values shall be increased by the ratio of 
the increased CO2 value divided by the calculated CO2 value. 
This shall not compensate for technical elements that would effectively 
require a vehicle to be excluded from the interpolation family. 
3.2.4 
Fuel consumption and CO2 calculations for individual vehicles in a road 
load matrix family 
 
The CO2 emissions and the fuel efficiency/fuel consumption for each 
individual vehicle in the road load matrix family shall be calculated 
according to the interpolation method described in paragraphs 3.2.3.2.3. to 
3.2.3.2.5. inclusive of this annex. Where applicable, references to vehicle L 
and/or H shall be replaced by references to vehicle LM and/or HM 
respectively. 
3.2.4.1 
Determination of fuel consumption and CO2 emissions of vehicles LM and 
HM 
 
The mass of CO2 emissions 𝑀𝐶𝑂2 of vehicles LM and HM shall be determined 
according to the calculations in paragraph 3.2.1. of this annex for the 
individual cycle phases p of the applicable WLTC and are referred to as 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2−𝐿𝑀,𝑝 and 𝑀𝐶𝑂2−𝐻𝑀,𝑝 respectively. Fuel consumption for individual 
cycle phases of the applicable WLTC shall be determined according to 
paragraph 6. of this annex and are referred to as FCLM,p and 
FCHM,prespectively. 
3.2.4.1.1 
Road load calculation for an individual vehicle 
 
The road load force shall be calculated according to the procedure described 
in paragraph 5.1. of Annex B4. 
3.2.4.1.1.1 
Mass of an individual vehicle 
 
The test masses of vehicles HM and LM selected according to 
paragraph 4.2.1.4. of Annex B4 shall be used as input. 
TMind, in kg, shall be the test mass of the individual vehicle according to the 
definition of test mass in paragraph 3.2.25. of this Regulation. 
If the same test mass is used for vehicles LM and HM, the value of TMind 
shall be set to the mass of vehicle HM for the road load matrix family method. 
3.2.4.1.1.2 
Rolling resistance of an individual vehicle 
3.2.4.1.1.2.1 
The RRC values for vehicle LM , RRLM, and vehicle HM, RRHM, selected 
under paragraph 4.2.1.4. of Annex B4, shall be used as input. 
 
If the tyres on the front and rear axles of vehicle LM or HM have different 
rolling resistance values, the weighted mean of the rolling resistances shall 
be calculated using the equation in paragraph 3.2.4.1.1.2.3. of this annex 



--- PAGE 354 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 354 of 762 
 
3.2.4.1.1.2.2 
For the tyres fitted to an individual vehicle, the value of the rolling resistance 
coefficient RRind shall be set to the RRC value of the applicable tyre energy 
efficiency class according to Table A4/2 of Annex B4. 
 
In the case where individual vehicles can be supplied with a complete set of 
standard wheels and tyres and in addition a complete set of snow tyres 
(marked with 3 Peaked Mountain and Snowflake – 3PMS) with or without 
wheels, the additional wheels/tyres shall not be considered as optional 
equipment. 
If the tyres on the front and the rear axles belong to different energy 
efficiency classes, the weighted mean shall be used and shall be calculated 
using the equation in paragraph 3.2.4.1.1.2.3. of this annex. 
If the same rolling resistance is used for vehicles LM and HM, the value of 
𝑅𝑅𝑖𝑛𝑑 shall be set to 𝑅𝑅𝐻𝑀 for the road load matrix family method. 
3.2.4.1.1.2.3 
Calculating the weighed mean of the rolling resistances 
 
𝑅𝑅𝑥 = (𝑅𝑅𝑥,𝐹𝐴× 𝑚𝑝𝑥,𝐹𝐴) + (𝑅𝑅𝑥,𝑅𝐴× (1 −𝑚𝑝𝑥,𝐹𝐴)) 
where: 
𝑥 
represents vehicle L, H or an individual vehicle; 
𝑅𝑅𝐿𝑀,𝐹𝐴 and RRHM,FA 
are the actual RRCs of the front axle tyres on 
vehicles L and H respectively, kg/tonne; 
𝑅𝑅𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝐹𝐴 
is the RRC value of the applicable tyre energy 
efficiency class according to Table A4/2 of 
Annex B4 of the front axle tyres on the individual 
vehicle, kg/tonne; 
RRLM,RA, and RRHM,RA are the actual rolling resistance coefficients of the 
rear axle tyres on vehicles L and H respectively, 
kg/tonne; 
RRind,RA  
is the RRC value of the applicable tyre energy 
efficiency class according to Table A4/2 of 
Annex B4 of the rear axle tyres on the individual 
vehicle, kg/tonne; 
𝑚𝑝𝑥,𝐹𝐴 
is the proportion of the vehicle mass in running 
order on the front axle. 
RRx shall not be rounded or categorised to tyre energy efficiency classes. 
3.2.4.1.1.3 
Frontal area of an individual vehicle 
 
The frontal area for vehicle LM, AfLM, and vehicle HM, AfHM, selected under 
paragraph 4.2.1.4. of Annex B4 shall be used as input. 



--- PAGE 355 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 355 of 762 
 
Af,ind, in m2, shall be the frontal area of the individual vehicle.  
If the same frontal area is used for vehicles LM and HM, the value of Af,ind 
shall be set to the frontal area of vehicle HM for the road load matrix family 
method. 
3.2.5 
Alternative interpolation calculation method 
 
Upon request of the manufacturer and with approval of the Test Agency, a 
manufacturer may apply an alternative interpolation calculation procedure 
in the case that the interpolation method creates unrealistic phase-specific 
results or an unrealistic road load curve. Before such permission is granted, 
the manufacturer shall check and where possible correct 
(a) 
 
The reason for having small differences between the road load 
relevant characteristics between vehicle L and H in the case of 
unrealistic phase- specific results; 
(b) 
 
The reason for having an unexpected difference between the f1,L 
and f1,H coefficients in the case of an unrealistic road load curve. 
The request of the manufacturer to the Test Agency shall include evidence 
that such a correction is not possible, and that the resultant error is 
significant. 
3.2.5.1 
Alternative calculation to correct unrealistic phase-specific results 
 
Alternatively to the procedures defined in paragraphs 3.2.3.2.4. and 
3.2.3.2.5. of this annex, calculations of phase CO2 and phase fuel 
consumption may be calculated according to the equations in 
paragraphs 3.2.5.1.1., 3.2.5.1.2. and 3.2.5.1.3. below. 
For each parameter, MCO2 is replaced by FC. 
3.2.5.1.1 
Ratio determination for each phase of VL and VH 
 
𝑅𝑝,𝐿= 𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝑝,𝐿
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝑐,𝐿
⁄
 
𝑅𝑝,𝐻= 𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝑝,𝐻
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝑐,𝐻
⁄
 
where: 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝑝,𝐿, 𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝑐,𝐿, 𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝑝,𝐻 𝑎𝑛𝑑 𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝑐,𝐻 are from step 9 in Table A7/1 in 
this annex. 
3.2.5.1.2 
Ratio determination for each phase for vehicle Vind 
 
𝑅𝑝,𝑖𝑛𝑑= 𝑅𝑝,𝐿+ (𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝑐,𝑖𝑛𝑑−𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝑐,𝐿
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝑐,𝐻−𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝑐,𝐿
) × (𝑅𝑝,𝐻−𝑅𝑝,𝐿) 



--- PAGE 356 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 356 of 762 
 
where: 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝑐,𝑖𝑛𝑑 is from step 10 in Table A7/1 in this annex and shall be rounded 
to the nearest whole number. 
3.2.5.1.3 
Phase per phase mass emission of vehicle Vind 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝑝,𝑖𝑛𝑑= 𝑅𝑝,𝑖𝑛𝑑× 𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝑐,𝑖𝑛𝑑 
3.2.5.2 
Alternative calculation to correct an unrealistic road load curve 
 
Alternatively to the procedure defined in paragraph 3.2.3.2.2.4. of this 
annex, road load coefficients may be calculated as follows: 
𝐹𝑖(𝑣) = 𝑓0,𝑖
∗+ 𝑓1,𝐴× 𝑣+ 𝑓2,𝑖
∗× 𝑣2 
Applying the least squares regression method in the range of the reference 
speed points, alternative adjusted road load coefficients f*0,i and f*2,i shall 
be determined for Fi(v) with the linear coefficient f*1,i set to f1,A. f1,A is 
calculated as follows: 
𝑓1,𝐴=
(𝐸𝑖−𝐸𝐿𝑅) × 𝑓1,𝐻𝑅+ (𝐸𝐻𝑅−𝐸𝑖) × 𝑓1,𝐿𝑅
(𝐸𝐻𝑅−𝐸𝐿𝑅)
 
where: 
E 
is the cycle energy demand as defined in paragraph 5. of this annex, 
Ws; 
i 
is the subscript denoting vehicles L, H or ind; 
HR 
is test vehicle H as described in paragraph 4.2.1.2.3.2. of Annex B4; 
LR 
is test vehicle L as described in paragraph 4.2.1.2.3.2. of Annex B4. 
3.3 
PM 
3.3.1 
Calculation 
 
PM shall be calculated using the following two equations: 
 
𝑃𝑀= (𝑉𝑚𝑖𝑥+ 𝑉𝑒𝑝) × 𝑃𝑒
𝑉𝑒𝑝× 𝑑
 
where exhaust gases are vented outside tunnel; 
and: 
𝑃𝑀= 𝑉𝑚𝑖𝑥× 𝑃𝑒
𝑉𝑒𝑝× 𝑑 



--- PAGE 357 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 357 of 762 
 
where exhaust gases are returned to the tunnel; 
 
where: 
𝑉𝑚𝑖𝑥 is the volume of diluted exhaust gases (see paragraph 2. of this 
annex), under standard conditions;  
𝑉𝑒𝑝 
is the volume of diluted exhaust gas flowing through the particulate 
sampling filter under standard conditions; 
𝑃𝑒 
is the mass of particulate matter collected by one or more sample 
filters, mg; 
𝑑 
is the distance driven corresponding to the test cycle, km. 
3.3.1.1 
Where correction for the background particulate mass from the dilution 
system has been used, this shall be determined in accordance with 
paragraph 2.1.3.1. of Annex B6. In this case, particulate mass (mg/km) shall 
be calculated using the following equations: 
 
𝑃𝑀= { 𝑃𝑒
𝑉𝑒𝑝
−[ 𝑃𝑎
𝑉𝑎𝑝
× (1 −1
𝐷𝐹)]} × (𝑉𝑚𝑖𝑥+ 𝑉𝑒𝑝)
𝑑
 
in the case that the exhaust gases are vented outside the tunnel; 
and; 
𝑃𝑀= { 𝑃𝑒
𝑉𝑒𝑝
−[ 𝑃𝑎
𝑉𝑎𝑝
× (1 −1
𝐷𝐹)]} ×
(𝑉𝑚𝑖𝑥)
𝑑
 
in the case that the exhaust gases are returned to the tunnel; 
where: 
𝑉𝑎𝑝 
is the volume of tunnel air flowing through the background 
particulate filter under standard conditions; 
𝑃𝑎 
is the particulate mass from the dilution air, or the dilution tunnel 
background air, as determined by the one of the methods described 
in paragraph 2.1.3.1. of Annex B6; 
𝐷𝐹 
is the dilution factor determined in paragraph 3.2.1.1.1. of this annex. 
Where application of a background correction results in a negative result, it 
shall be considered to be zero mg/km. 
3.3.2 
Calculation of PM using the double dilution method 
 
𝑉𝑒𝑝= 𝑉𝑠𝑒𝑡−𝑉𝑠𝑠𝑑 
 
where: 



--- PAGE 358 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 358 of 762 
 
𝑉𝑒𝑝 
is the volume of diluted exhaust gas flowing through the particulate 
sample filter under standard conditions; 
𝑉𝑠𝑒𝑡 
is the volume of the double diluted exhaust gas passing through the 
particulate sampling filters under standard conditions; 
𝑉𝑠𝑠𝑑 is the volume of the secondary dilution air under standard conditions. 
Where the secondary diluted sample gas for PM measurement is not 
returned to the tunnel, the CVS volume shall be calculated as in single 
dilution, i.e.: 
𝑉𝑚𝑖𝑥= 𝑉𝑚𝑖𝑥 𝑖𝑛𝑑𝑖𝑐𝑎𝑡𝑒𝑑+ 𝑉𝑒𝑝 
 
where: 
𝑉𝑚𝑖𝑥 𝑖𝑛𝑑𝑖𝑐𝑎𝑡𝑒𝑑 
is the measured volume of diluted exhaust gas in the 
dilution 
 system following extraction of the particulate sample 
understandard conditions. 
4.0 
Determination of PN (if applicable) 
 
PN shall be calculated using the following equation: 
 
𝑃𝑁= 𝑉× 𝑘× (𝐶𝑠̅ × 𝑓𝑟̅ −𝐶𝑏× 𝑓𝑟𝑏
̅̅̅̅) × 103
𝑑
 
 
where: 
PN is the particle number emission, particles per kilometre; 
𝑉 
is the volume of the diluted exhaust gas in litres per test (after primary 
dilution only in the case of double dilution) and corrected to standard 
conditions (273.15 K (0 °C) and 101.325 kPa); 
𝑘 
is a calibration factor to correct the PNC measurements to the level of 
the reference instrument where this is not applied internally within the 
PNC. Where the calibration factor is applied internally within the 
PNC, the calibration factor shall be 1; 
𝐶𝑠̅  
is the corrected particle number concentration from the diluted exhaust 
gas expressed as the arithmetic average number of particles per cubic 
centimetre from the emissions test including the full duration of the 
drive cycle. If the volumetric mean concentration results 𝐶̅ from the 
PNC are not measured at standard conditions (273.15 K (0 °C) and 
101.325 kPa), the concentrations shall be corrected to those conditions 
𝐶𝑠̅ ; 
𝐶𝑏 
is either the dilution air or the dilution tunnel background particle 
 number concentration, as permitted by the Test Agency, in particles 



--- PAGE 359 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 359 of 762 
 
per cubic centimetre, corrected to standard conditions (273.15 K 
(0 °C) and 101.325 kPa); 
𝑓𝑟̅ 
is the mean particle concentration reduction factor of the VPR at the 
dilution setting used for the test; 
𝑓𝑟𝑏
̅̅̅̅ 
is the mean particle concentration reduction factor of the VPR at the 
dilution setting used for the background measurement; 
𝑑 
is the distance driven corresponding to the applicable test cycle, km. 
𝐶̅ shall be calculated using the following equation: 
𝐶̅ =
∑
𝐶𝑖
𝑛
𝑖=1
𝑛
 
 
where: 
𝐶𝑖 
is a discrete measurement of particle number concentration in the 
diluted gas exhaust from the PNC; particles per cm³. 
𝑛 
is the total number of discrete particle number concentration 
measurements made  during the applicable test cycle and shall be 
calculated using the following equation: 
𝑛= 𝑡× 𝑓 
 
where: 
 
𝑡 
is the time duration of the applicable test cycle, s; 
𝑓 
is the data logging frequency of the particle counter, Hz. 
5.0 
Calculation of cycle energy demand 
 
Unless otherwise specified, the calculation shall be based on the target speed 
trace given in discrete time sample points. 
The total energy demand E for the whole cycle or a specific cycle phase 
shall be calculated by summing 𝐸𝑖 over the corresponding cycle time 
between tstart +1 and tend according to the following equation: 
𝐸= ∑
𝐸𝑖
𝑡𝑒𝑛𝑑
𝑡𝑠𝑡𝑎𝑟𝑡+1
 
 
where: 
 
𝐸𝑖= 𝐹𝑖 × 𝑑𝑖 
if 𝐹𝑖> 0 
𝐸𝑖= 0  
if 𝐹𝑖≤0 



--- PAGE 360 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 360 of 762 
 
and: 
tstart is the time at which the applicable test cycle or phase starts (see 
paragraph 3. of Annex B1), s; 
tend 
is the time at which the applicable test cycle or phase ends (see 
paragraph 3. of Annex B1), s; 
𝐸𝑖 
is the energy demand during time period (i-1) to (i), Ws; 
𝐹𝑖 
is the driving force during time period (i-1) to (i), N; 
𝑑𝑖 
is the distance travelled during time period (i-1) to (i), m. 
𝐹𝑖= 𝑓0 + 𝑓1 × (𝑣𝑖+ 𝑣𝑖−1
2
) + 𝑓2 × (𝑣𝑖+ 𝑣𝑖−1)2
4
+ (1.03 × 𝑇𝑀) × 𝑎𝑖 
 
where: 
 
𝐹𝑖 
is the driving force during time period (i-1) to (i), N; 
𝑣𝑖 
is the target velocity at time ti, km/h; 
𝑇𝑀 is the test mass, kg; 
𝑎𝑖 
is the acceleration during time period (i-1) to (i), m/s²; 
𝑓0, 𝑓1, 𝑓2 
are the road load coefficients for the test vehicle under 
consideration (𝑇𝑀𝐿, 𝑇𝑀𝐻or 𝑇𝑀𝑖𝑛𝑑) in N, N/km/h and in N/(km/h)² 
respectively. 
𝑑𝑖=
(𝑣𝑖+ 𝑣𝑖−1)
2 × 3.6
× (𝑡𝑖−𝑡𝑖−1) 
 
where: 
 
𝑑𝑖 
is the distance travelled in time period (i-1) to (i), m; 
𝑣𝑖 
is the target velocity at time 𝑡𝑖, km/h; 
𝑡𝑖 
is time, s. 
𝑎𝑖=
𝑣𝑖−𝑣𝑖−1
3.6 × (𝑡𝑖−𝑡𝑖−1) 
where: 
𝑎𝑖 
is the acceleration during time period (i-1) to (i), m/s²; 
𝑣𝑖 
is the target velocity at time 𝑡𝑖, km/h; 
𝑡𝑖 
is time, s. 



--- PAGE 361 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 361 of 762 
 
6.0 
Calculation of fuel consumption and fuel efficiency (as applicable) 
6.1 
The fuel characteristics required for the calculation of fuel consumption 
values shall be taken from Annex B3 of this regulation. 
6.2 
The fuel consumption values shall be calculated from the emissions of 
hydrocarbons, carbon monoxide, and carbon dioxide using the results of 
step 6 for criteria emissions and step 7 for CO2 of Table A7/1. 
6.2.1 
The general equation in paragraph 6.12. of this annex using H/C and O/C 
ratios shall be used for the calculation of fuel consumption. 
6.2.2 
For all equations in paragraph 6. of this annex: 
 
FC 
is the fuel consumption of a specific fuel, l/100 km (or m³ per 
100 km in the case of natural gas or kg/100 km in the case of 
hydrogen); 
H/C 
is the hydrogen to carbon ratio of a specific fuel CXHYOZ; 
O/C 
is the oxygen to carbon ratio of a specific fuel CXHYOZ; 
MWC is the molar mass of carbon (12.011 g/mol); 
MWH is the molar mass of hydrogen (1.008 g/mol); 
MWO is the molar mass of oxygen (15.999 g/mol); 
ρfuel 
is the test fuel density, kg/l. For gaseous fuels, fuel density at 15 °C; 
HC 
are the emissions of hydrocarbon, g/km; 
CO 
are the emissions of carbon monoxide, g/km; 
CO2 
are the emissions of carbon dioxide, g/km; 
H2O 
are the emissions of water, g/km; 
H2 
are the emissions of hydrogen, g/km; 
p1 
is the gas pressure in the fuel tank before the applicable test cycle, 
Pa; 
p2 
is the gas pressure in the fuel tank after the applicable test cycle, Pa; 
T1 
is the gas temperature in the fuel tank before the applicable test 
cycle, K; 
T2 
is the gas temperature in the fuel tank after the applicable test cycle, 
K; 
Z1 
is the compressibility factor of the gaseous fuel at p1 and T1; 



--- PAGE 362 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 362 of 762 
 
Z2 
is the compressibility factor of the gaseous fuel at p2 and T2; 
V 
is the interior volume of the gaseous fuel tank, m³; 
d 
is the theoretical length of the applicable phase or cycle, km. 
6.3 
For a vehicle with a positive ignition engine fuelled with petrol (E0)  
𝐹𝐶= (0.1155
𝜌𝑓𝑢𝑒𝑙
) × [(0.866 × 𝐻𝐶) + (0.429 × 𝐶𝑂) + (0.273 × 𝐶𝑂2)] 
6.4 
For a vehicle with a positive ignition engine fuelled with petrol (E5) 
𝐹𝐶= (0.118
𝜌𝑓𝑢𝑒𝑙
) × [(0.848 × 𝐻𝐶) + (0.429 × 𝐶𝑂) + (0.273 × 𝐶𝑂2)] 
6.5 
For a vehicle with a positive ignition engine fuelled with petrol (E10) 
𝐹𝐶= (0.1206
𝜌𝑓𝑢𝑒𝑙
) × [(0.829 × 𝐻𝐶) + (0.429 × 𝐶𝑂) + (0.273 × 𝐶𝑂2)] 
6.6 
For a vehicle with a positive ignition engine fuelled with LPG 
𝐹𝐶𝑛𝑜𝑟𝑚= (0.1212
0.538 ) × [(0.825 × 𝐻𝐶) + (0.429 × 𝐶𝑂) + (0.273 × 𝐶𝑂2)] 
6.6.1 
If the composition of the fuel used for the test differs from the composition 
that is assumed for the calculation of the normalised consumption, on the 
manufacturer's request a correction factor cf may be applied, using the 
following equation: 
𝐹𝐶𝑛𝑜𝑟𝑚= (0.1212
0.538 ) × 𝑐𝑓× [(0.825 × 𝐻𝐶) + (0.429 × 𝐶𝑂) + (0.273 × 𝐶𝑂2)] 
 
The correction factor, 𝑐𝑓, which may be applied, is determined using the 
following equation: 
𝑐𝑓= 0.825 + 0.0693 × 𝑛𝑎𝑐𝑡𝑢𝑎𝑙 
where: 
𝑛𝑎𝑐𝑡𝑢𝑎𝑙 is the actual H/C ratio of the fuel used. 
6.7 
For a vehicle with a positive ignition engine fuelled with NG/biomethane 
 
𝐹𝐶𝑛𝑜𝑟𝑚= (0.1336
0.654 ) × [(0.749 × 𝐻𝐶) + (0.429 × 𝐶𝑂) + (0.273 × 𝐶𝑂2)] 
6.8 
For a vehicle with a compression engine fuelled with diesel (B0)  
 
𝐹𝐶= (0.1156
𝜌𝑓𝑢𝑒𝑙
) × [(0.865 × 𝐻𝐶) + (0.429 × 𝐶𝑂) + (0.273 × 𝐶𝑂2)] 



--- PAGE 363 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 363 of 762 
 
6.9 
Reserved 
6.10 
For a vehicle with a compression engine fuelled with diesel (B7) 
 
𝐹𝐶= (0.1165
𝜌𝑓𝑢𝑒𝑙
) × [(0.858 × 𝐻𝐶) + (0.429 × 𝐶𝑂) + (0.273 × 𝐶𝑂2)] 
6.11 
For a vehicle with a positive ignition engine fuelled with ethanol (E85) 
 
𝐹𝐶= (0.1743
𝜌𝑓𝑢𝑒𝑙
) × [(0.574 × 𝐻𝐶) + (0.429 × 𝐶𝑂) + (0.273 × 𝐶𝑂2)] 
6.12 
Fuel consumption for any test fuel may be calculated using the following 
equation: 
 
𝐹𝐶=
𝑀𝑊𝐶+ 𝐻
𝐶× 𝑀𝑊𝐻+ 𝑂
𝐶× 𝑀𝑊𝑂
𝑀𝑊𝐶× 𝜌𝑓𝑢𝑒𝑙× 10
× (
𝑀𝑊𝐶
𝑀𝑊𝐶+ 𝐻
𝐶× 𝑀𝑊𝐻+ 𝑂
𝐶× 𝑀𝑊𝑂
× 𝐻𝐶+ 𝑀𝑊𝐶
𝑀𝑊𝐶𝑂
× 𝐶𝑂+ 𝑀𝑊𝐶
𝑀𝑊𝐶𝑂2
× 𝐶𝑂2) 
6.13 
Fuel consumption for a vehicle with a positive ignition engine fuelled by 
hydrogen: 
 
𝐹𝐶= 0.024 × 𝑉
𝑑× ( 1
𝑍1
× 𝑝1
𝑇1
−1
𝑍2
× 𝑝2
𝑇2
) 
For vehicles fuelled either with gaseous or liquid hydrogen, and with 
approval of the Test Agency, the manufacturer may choose to calculate fuel 
consumption using either the equation for FC below or a method using a 
standard protocol such as SAE J2572 
𝐹𝐶= 0.1 × (0.1119 × 𝐻2𝑂+ 𝐻2) 
For vehicles fuelled either with gaseous or liquid hydrogen, and with 
approval of the Test AgencyTest Agency, the manufacturer may choose to 
calculate fuel consumption using either the equation for FC below or a 
method using a standard protocol such as SAE J2572. 
 
𝐹𝐶= 0.1 × (0.1119 × 𝐻2𝑂+ 𝐻2) 
The compressibility factor, Z, shall be obtained from the following table: 
 



--- PAGE 364 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 364 of 762 
 
 
Table A7/2 
Compressibility factor Z 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 p(bar)   
  
  
  
  
 
 
5 
100 
200 
300 
400 
500 
600 
700 
800 
900 
 
33 
0.859 
1.051 
1.885 
2.648 
3.365 
4.051 
4.712 
5.352 5.973 
6.576 
  
53 
0.965 
0.922 
1.416 
1.891 
2.338 
2.765 
3.174 
3.570 3.954 
4.329 
  
73 
0.989 
0.991 
1.278 
1.604 
1.923 
2.229 
2.525 
2.810 3.088 
3.358 
  
93 
0.997 
1.042 
1.233 
1.470 
1.711 
1.947 
2.177 
2.400 2.617 
2.829 
  
113 
1.000 
1.066 
1.213 
1.395 
1.586 
1.776 
1.963 
2.146 2.324 
2.498 
  
133 
1.002 
1.076 
1.199 
1.347 
1.504 
1.662 
1.819 
1.973 2.124 
2.271 
  
153 
1.003 
1.079 
1.187 
1.312 
1.445 
1.580 
1.715 
1.848 1.979 
2.107 
  
173 
1.003 
1.079 
1.176 
1.285 
1.401 
1.518 
1.636 
1.753 1.868 
1.981 
T(K) 
193 
1.003 
1.077 
1.165 
1.263 
1.365 
1.469 
1.574 
1.678 1.781 
1.882 
  
213 
1.003 
1.071 
1.147 
1.228 
1.311 
1.396 
1.482 
1.567 1.652 
1.735 
 
233 
1.004 
1.071 
1.148 
1.228 
1.312 
1.397 
1.482 
1.568 1.652 
1.736 
  
248 
1.003 
1.069 
1.141 
1.217 
1.296 
1.375 
1.455 
1.535 1.614 
1.693 
  
263 
1.003 
1.066 
1.136 
1.207 
1.281 
1.356 
1.431 
1.506 1.581 
1.655 
  
278 
1.003 
1.064 
1.130 
1.198 
1.268 
1.339 
1.409 
1.480 1.551 
1.621 
  
293 
1.003 
1.062 
1.125 
1.190 
1.256 
1.323 
1.390 
1.457 1.524 
1.590 
  
308 
1.003 
1.060 
1.120 
1.182 
1.245 
1.308 
1.372 
1.436 1.499 
1.562 
  
323 
1.003 
1.057 
1.116 
1.175 
1.235 
1.295 
1.356 
1.417 1.477 
1.537 
  
338 
1.003 
1.055 
1.111 
1.168 
1.225 
1.283 
1.341 
1.399 1.457 
1.514 
  
353 
1.003 
1.054 
1.107 
1.162 
1.217 
1.272 
1.327 
1.383 1.438 
1.493 
 
In the case that the required input values for p and T are not indicated in the 
table, the compressibility factor shall be obtained by linear interpolation 
between the compressibility factors indicated in the table, choosing the ones 
that are the closest to the value sought. 
6.14 
For a vehicle with a positive ignition engine fuelled with petrol(E12) 
6.15 
For a vehicle with a positive ignition engine fuelled with petrol(E15) 



--- PAGE 365 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 365 of 762 
 
6.16 
For a vehicle with a positive ignition engine fuelled with petrol(E20) 
7.0 
Drive trace indices 
7.1 
General requirement 
 
The prescribed speed between time points in Tables A1/1 to A1/12 shall be 
determined by linear interpolation at a frequency of 10 Hz. 
 
In the case that the accelerator control is fully activated, the prescribed speed 
shall be used instead of the actual vehicle speed for drive trace index 
calculations during such periods of operation. 
 
The on-board diagnostics (OBD) or electronic control unit (ECU) monitoring 
(data collection) system may be used in order to detect the position of the 
accelerator control. The collection of OBD and/or ECU data shall not influence 
the vehicle's emissions or performance 
7.2 
Calculation of drive trace indices 
 
The following indices shall be calculated according to SAE J2951(Revised 
JAN2014): 
(a) 
 
IWR Inertial Work Rating, per cent; 
(b) 
 
RMSSE 
Root Mean Squared Speed Error, km/h. 
7.3 
(Reserved) 
7.4 
Vehicle-specific application of drive trace indices 
7.4.1 
Pure ICE vehicles, NOVC-HEVs, NOVC-FCHVs 
 
The drive trace indices IWR and RMSSE shall be calculated for the applicable 
test cycle and reported. 
7.4.2 
OVC-HEVs 
7.4.2.1 
Charge-sustaining Type I test (paragraph 3.2.5. of Annex B8) 
 
The drive trace indices IWR and RMSSE shall be calculated for the applicable 
test cycle and recorded. 
7.4.2.2 
Charge-depleting Type I test (paragraph 3.2.4.3. of Annex B8) 
 
If the number of charge-depleting Type I test cycles is less than four, the drive 
trace indices IWR and RMSSE shall be calculated for each individual 
applicable test cycle of the charge-depleting Type I test and reported 
If the number of charge-depleting Type I test cycles is greater than or equal to 
four, the drive trace indices IWR and RMSSE shall be calculated for each 
individual applicable test cycle of the charge-depleting Type I test and 
reported. In this case, the average IWR and the average RMSSE for the 



--- PAGE 366 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 366 of 762 
 
combination of any two cycles within the charge-depleting test shall be 
compared with the respective criteria specified in paragraph 2.6.8.3.1.3. of 
Annex B6, and the calculated IWR of any individual cycle within the charge-
depleting test shall not be less than -3.0 nor greater than +5.0 per cent. 
7.4.3 
PEV 
7.4.3.1 
Consecutive cycle test 
 
The consecutive cycle test procedure shall be performed according to 
paragraph 3.4.4.1. of Annex B8. The drive trace indices IWR and RMSSE shall 
be calculated for each individual test cycle of the consecutive cycle test 
procedure and reported. The test cycle during which the break-off criterion is 
reached, as specified in paragraph 3.4.4.1.3. of Annex B8, shall be combined 
with the preceding test cycle. The drive trace indices IWR and RMSSE shall 
be calculated considering this as one cycle. 
7.4.3.2 
Shortened Type I test 
 
The drive trace indices IWR and RMSSE for the shortened Type I test 
procedure, as performed according to paragraph 3.4.4.2. of Annex B8, shall be 
calculated separately for each dynamic segment 1 and 2 and reported. The 
calculation of drive trace indices during the constant speed segments shall be 
omitted. 
8.0 
Calculating n/v ratios 
 
n/v ratios shall be calculated using the following equation: 
(𝑛
𝑣)
𝑖
= 𝑟𝑖× 𝑟𝑎𝑥𝑙𝑒× 60000
𝑈𝑑𝑦𝑛× 3.6
 
where: 
n 
is engine speed, min-1; 
v 
is the vehicle speed, km/h; 
ri 
is the transmission ratio in gear i; 
raxle is the axle transmission ratio. 
Udyn is the dynamic rolling circumference of the tyres of the drive axle and is 
calculated using the following equation: 
𝑈𝑑𝑦𝑛= 3.05 × (2 (𝐻/𝑊
100 ) × 𝑊+ (𝑅× 25.4)) 
 
where: 
 
H/W is the tyre’s aspect ratio, e.g. "45" for a 225/45 R17 tyre; 



--- PAGE 367 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 367 of 762 
 
W 
is the tyre width, mm; e.g. "225" for a 225/45 R17 tyre; 
R 
is the wheel diameter, inch; e.g. "17" for a 225/45 R17 tyre. 
Udyn shall be rounded according to paragraph 6.1.8. of this Regulation to 
whole millimetres. 
If Udyn is different for the front and the rear axles, the value of n/v for the mainly 
powered axle shall be applied on a dynamometer in both 2WD and 4WD 
operation mode. 
Upon request, the Test Agency shall be provided with the necessary 
information for that selection. 



--- PAGE 368 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 368 of 762 
 
Annex B8 
Pure electric, hybrid electric and compressed hydrogen fuel cell hybrid vehicles 
1.0 
General requirements 
In the case of testing NOVC-HEVs, OVC-HEVs  , NOVC-FCHVs and OVC-
FCHVs  Appendix 2 and Appendix 3 to this annex shall replace Appendix 2 
to Annex B6. 
Unless stated otherwise, all requirements in this annex shall apply to vehicles 
with and without driver-selectable modes. Unless explicitly stated otherwise 
in this annex, all of the requirements and procedures specified in Annex B6 
and Annex B7 shall continue to apply for NOVC-HEVs, OVC-HEVs, 
NOVC-FCHVs, OVC-FCHVs and PEVs. 
1.1. 
Units, accuracy and resolution of electric parameters 
Units, accuracy and resolution of measurements shall be as shown in 
Table A8/1. 
 
Table A8/1 
Parameters, units, accuracy and resolution of measurements 
 
Parameter 
Units 
Accuracy 
Resolution 
 
Electrical 
energy (a) 
Wh 
±1 per cent 
0.001 kWh(b) 
 
Electrical 
current 
A 
±0.3 per cent FSD or  
±1 per cent of reading (c,d) 
0.1 A 
 
Electric 
voltage 
V 
±0.3 per cent FSD or  
±1 per cent of reading (c) 
0.1 V 
 
(a)  Equipment: static meter for active energy. 
(b)  AC watt-hour meter, Class 1 according to IEC 62053-21 or equivalent. 
(c)  Whichever is greater. 
(d)  Current integration frequency 20 Hz or more. 
 
(Table A8/2 
Reserved) 
1.2. 
Emission and fuel consumption testing 
Parameters, units and accuracy of measurements shall be the same as those 
required for pure ICE vehicles. 
1.3. 
Rounding of test results 



--- PAGE 369 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 369 of 762 
 
1.3.1. 
Unless intermediate rounding is required, intermediate steps in the 
calculations shall not be rounded. 
1.3.2. 
In the case of OVC-HEVs and NOVC-HEVs, the final criteria emission 
results shall be rounded according to paragraph 1.3.2. of Annex B7, the NOx 
correction factor KH shall be rounded according to paragraph 1.3.3. of 
Annex B7, and the dilution factor DF shall be rounded according to 
paragraph 1.3.4. of Annex B7, 
1.3.3. 
For information not related to standards, good engineering judgement shall be 
used. 
1.3.4. 
Rounding of range, CO2, energy consumption and fuel consumption results is 
described in the calculation tables of this annex. 
1.4. 
Vehicle classification 
All OVC-HEVs, NOVC-HEVs, PEVs, OVC-FCHVs and NOVC-FCHVs 
shall be classified as Class 3 vehicles. The applicable test cycle for the Type 
I test procedure shall be determined according to paragraph 1.4.2. of this 
annex based on the corresponding reference test cycle as described in 
paragraph 1.4.1. of this annex. 
1.4.1. 
Reference test cycle 
1.4.1.1. 
The Class 3 reference test cycles are specified in paragraph 3.3. of Annex B1. 
1.4.1.2. 
For PEVs, the downscaling procedure, according to paragraphs 8.2.3. and 8.3. 
of Annex B1, may be applied on the test cycles according to paragraph 3.3. 
of Annex B1 by replacing the rated power with maximum net power 
according to Regulation No. 85. In such a case, the downscaled cycle is the 
reference test cycle. 
1.4.2. 
Applicable test cycle 
1.4.2.1. 
Applicable WLTP test cycle 
The reference test cycle according to paragraph 1.4.1. of this annex shall be 
the applicable WLTP test cycle (WLTC) for the Type I test procedure. 
In the case that paragraph 9. of Annex B1 is applied based on the reference 
test cycle as described in paragraph 1.4.1. of this annex, this modified test 
cycle shall be the applicable WLTP test cycle (WLTC) for the Type I test 
procedure. 
1.5. 
OVC-HEVs, NOVC-HEVs, NOVC-FCHVs, OVC-FCHVs and PEVs with 
manual transmissions  
The vehicles shall be driven according to the technical gear shift indicator, if 
available, or according to instructions incorporated in the manufacturer's 
handbook. 



--- PAGE 370 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 370 of 762 
 
2. 
Run-in of test vehicle 
The vehicle tested according to this annex shall be presented in good technical 
condition and shall be run-in in accordance with the manufacturer’s 
recommendations. In the case that the REESSs are operated above the normal 
operating temperature range, the operator shall follow the procedure 
recommended by the vehicle manufacturer in order to keep the temperature 
of the REESS in its normal operating range. The manufacturer shall provide 
evidence that the thermal management system of the REESS is neither 
disabled nor reduced. 
2.1. 
OVC-HEVs and NOVC-HEVs shall have been run-in according to the 
requirements of paragraph 2.3.3. of Annex B6. 
2.2. 
NOVC-FCHVs and OVC-FCHVs shall have been run-in at least 300 km with 
their fuel cell and REESS installed. 
2.3. 
PEVs shall have been run-in at least 300 km or one full charge distance, 
whichever is longer. 
2.4. 
All REESS having no influence on CO2 mass emissions or H2 consumption 
shall be excluded from monitoring. 
3. 
Test procedure 
3.1. 
General requirements 
3.1.1. 
For all OVC-HEVs, NOVC-HEVs, PEVs, OVC-FCHVs and NOVC-FCHVs, 
the following shall apply where applicable: 
3.1.1.1. 
Vehicles shall be tested according to the applicable test cycles described in 
paragraph 1.4.2. of this annex. 
3.1.1.2. 
If the vehicle cannot follow the applicable test cycle within the speed trace 
tolerances according to paragraph 2.6.8.3.1.2. of Annex B6, the accelerator 
control shall, unless stated otherwise, be fully activated until the required 
speed trace is reached again. 
3.1.1.3. 
The powertrain start procedure shall be initiated by means of the devices 
provided for this purpose according to the manufacturer's instructions. 
3.1.1.4 
For OVC-HEVs, NOVC-HEVs, OVC-FCHVs, NOVC-FCHVs and PEVs, 
exhaust emissions sampling and measurement of electric energy consumption 
shall begin for each applicable test cycle before or at the initiation of the 
vehicle start procedure and end at the conclusion of each applicable test cycle. 
3.1.1.5.  
For OVC-HEVs and NOVC-HEVs, gaseous emission compounds, shall be 
analysed for each individual test phase. It is permitted to omit the phase 
analysis for phases where no combustion engine operates. 



--- PAGE 371 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 371 of 762 
 
3.1.1.6. 
For OVC-HEVs and NOVC-HEVs, without prejudice to paragraph 2.10.1.1. 
of Annex B6, particle number shall be analysed for each individual phase and 
particulate matter emission shall be analysed for each applicable test cycle. 
For cycles where no combustion engine operates, it is permitted to set the 
emission results to zero. 
3.1.2. 
Forced cooling as described in paragraph 2.7.2. of Annex B6 shall apply only 
for the charge-sustaining Type I test for OVC-HEVs according to 
paragraph 3.2. of this annex and for testing NOVC-HEVs according to 
paragraph 3.3. of this annex. 
3.1.3. 
The requirements of paragraphs 2.2.2.1.2. and 2.2.2.1.3. of Annex B6 are 
exempted when testing was conducted for PEVs according to paragraph 3.4. 
and for FCHVs according to paragraph 3.5. 
3.2. 
OVC-HEVs 
3.2.1. 
Vehicles shall be tested under charge-depleting operating condition (CD 
condition), and charge-sustaining operating condition (CS condition) 
3.2.2. 
Vehicles may be tested according to four possible test sequences: 
3.2.2.1. 
Option 1: charge-depleting Type I test with no subsequent charge-sustaining 
Type I test. 
3.2.2.2. 
Option 2: charge-sustaining Type I test with no subsequent charge-depleting 
Type I test. 
3.2.2.3. 
Option 3: charge-depleting Type I test with a subsequent charge-sustaining 
Type I test. 
3.2.2.4.  
Option 4: charge-sustaining Type I test with a subsequent charge-depleting 
Type I test. 
 
Figure A8/1 
Possible test sequences in the case of OVC-HEV testing 
 
 



--- PAGE 372 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 372 of 762 
 
3.2.3. 
The driver-selectable mode shall be set as described in the following test 
sequences (Option 1 to Option 4). 
3.2.4. 
Charge-depleting Type I test with no subsequent charge-sustaining Type I test 
(Option 1) 
The test sequence according to Option 1, described in paragraphs 3.2.4.1. to 
3.2.4.7. inclusive of this annex, as well as the corresponding REESS state of 
charge profile, are shown in Figure A8.App1/1 in Appendix 1 to this annex. 
3.2.4.1. 
Preconditioning 
The vehicle shall be prepared according to the procedures in paragraph 2.2. 
of Appendix 4 to this annex. 
3.2.4.2. 
Test conditions 
3.2.4.2.1. 
The test shall be carried out with a fully charged REESS according to the 
charging requirements as described in paragraph 2.2.3. of Appendix 4 to this 
annex and with the vehicle operated in charge-depleting operating condition 
as defined in paragraph 3.3.5. of this Regulation. 
3.2.4.2.2. 
Selection of a driver-selectable mode 
For vehicles equipped with a driver-selectable mode, the mode for the charge-
depleting Type I test shall be selected according to paragraph 2. of 
Appendix 6 to this annex. 
3.2.4.3. 
Charge-depleting Type I test procedure 
3.2.4.3.1. 
The charge-depleting Type I test procedure shall consist of a number of 
consecutive cycles, each followed by a soak period of no more than 
30 minutes until charge-sustaining operating condition is achieved. 
3.2.4.3.2. 
During soaking between individual applicable test cycles, the powertrain 
shall be deactivated and the REESS shall not be recharged from an external 
electric energy source. The instrumentation for measuring the electric 
current of all REESSs and for determining the electric voltage of all 
REESSs according to Appendix 3 of this annex shall not be turned off 
between test cycle phases. In the case of ampere-hour meter measurement, 
the integration shall remain active throughout the entire test until the test 
is concluded. 
Restarting after soak, the vehicle shall be operated in the driver-selectable 
mode according to paragraph 3.2.4.2.2. of this annex. 
3.2.4.3.3. 
In deviation from paragraph 5.3.1. of Annex B5 and additional to 
paragraph 5.3.1.2. of Annex B5, analysers may be calibrated and zero- 
checked before and after the charge-depleting Type I test. 



--- PAGE 373 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 373 of 762 
 
3.2.4.4. 
End of the charge-depleting Type I test 
The end of the charge-depleting Type I test is considered to have been reached 
when the break-off criterion according to paragraph 3.2.4.5. of this annex is 
reached for the first time. The number of applicable WLTP test cycles up to 
and including the one where the break-off criterion was reached for the first 
time is set to n+1.  
The applicable WLTP test cycle n is defined as the transition cycle.  
The applicable WLTP test cycle n+1 is defined to be the confirmation cycle. 
For vehicles without a charge-sustaining capability over the complete 
applicable WLTP test cycle, the end of the charge-depleting Type I test is 
reached by an indication on a standard on-board instrument panel to stop 
the vehicle, or when the vehicle deviates from the prescribed speed trace 
tolerance for 4 consecutive seconds or more. The accelerator control shall 
be deactivated and the vehicle shall be braked to standstill within 
60 seconds. 
3.2.4.5. 
Break-off criterion 
3.2.4.5.1.  
Whether the break-off criterion has been reached for each driven applicable 
WLTP test cycle shall be evaluated. 
3.2.4.5.2. 
The break-off criterion for the charge-depleting Type I test is reached when 
the relative electric energy change REECi, as calculated using the following 
equation, is less than 0.04. 
𝑅𝐸𝐸𝐶𝑖 =
|∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝑖|
𝐸𝑐𝑦𝑐𝑙𝑒×
1
3600
 
 
where: 
 
𝑅𝐸𝐸𝐶𝑖 
is the relative electric energy change of the applicable test cycle 
considered i of the charge-depleting Type I test; 
∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝑖 
is the change of electric energy of all REESSs for the considered 
charge-depleting Type I test cycle i calculated according to 
paragraph 4.3. of this annex, Wh; 
𝐸𝑐𝑦𝑐𝑙𝑒 
is the cycle energy demand of the considered applicable WLTP 
test cycle calculated according to paragraph 5. of Annex B7, 
Ws; 
i 
is the index number for the considered applicable WLTP test 
cycle; 
1
3600 
is a conversion factor to Wh for the cycle energy demand. 



--- PAGE 374 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 374 of 762 
 
3.2.4.6. 
REESS charging and measuring the recharged electric energy 
3.2.4.6.1. 
The vehicle shall be connected to the mains within 120 minutes after the 
applicable WLTP test cycle n+1 in which the break-off criterion for the 
charge-depleting Type I test is reached for the first time. 
The REESS is fully charged when the end-of-charge criterion, as defined in 
paragraph 2.2.3.2. of Appendix 4 to this annex, is reached. 
3.2.4.6.2. 
The electric energy measurement equipment, placed between the vehicle 
charger and the mains, shall measure the recharged electric energy EAC 
delivered from the mains, as well as its duration. Electric energy measurement 
may be stopped when the end-of-charge criterion, as defined in 
paragraph 2.2.3.2. of Appendix 4 to this annex, is reached. 
3.2.4.7. 
Each individual applicable WLTP test cycle within the charge-depleting Type 
I test shall fulfil the applicable criteria emission limits according to 
paragraph 1.2. of Annex B6. 
3.2.5. 
Charge-sustaining Type I test with no subsequent charge-depleting Type I test 
(Option 2) 
The test sequence according to Option 2, as described in paragraphs 3.2.5.1. 
to 3.2.5.3.3. inclusive of this annex, as well as the corresponding REESS state 
of charge profile, are shown in Figure A8.App1/2 in Appendix 1 to this annex. 
3.2.5.1. 
Preconditioning and soaking 
The vehicle shall be prepared according to the procedures in paragraph 2.1. 
of Appendix 4 to this annex. 
3.2.5.2. 
Test conditions 
3.2.5.2.1. 
Tests shall be carried out with the vehicle operated in charge-sustaining 
operating condition as defined in paragraph 3.3.6. of this Regulation. 
3.2.5.2.2. 
Selection of a driver-selectable mode  
For vehicles equipped with a driver-selectable mode, the mode for the charge-
sustaining Type I test shall be selected according to paragraph 3. of 
Appendix 6 to this annex. 
3.2.5.3. 
Type I test procedure 
3.2.5.3.1. 
Vehicles shall be tested according to the Type I test procedures described in 
Annex B6. 
3.2.5.3.2. 
If required, CO2 mass emission shall be corrected according to Appendix 2 to 
this annex. 
3.2.5.3.3.  
The test according to paragraph 3.2.5.3.1. of this annex shall fulfil the 
applicable criteria emission limits according to paragraph 1.2. of Annex B6. 



--- PAGE 375 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 375 of 762 
 
3.2.6. 
Charge-depleting Type I test with a subsequent charge-sustaining Type I test 
(Option 3) 
The test sequence according to Option 3, as described in paragraphs 3.2.6.1. 
to 3.2.6.3. inclusive of this annex, as well as the corresponding REESS state 
of charge profile, are shown in Figure A8.App1/3 in Appendix 1 to this annex. 
3.2.6.1.  
For the charge-depleting Type I test, the procedure described in 
paragraphs 3.2.4.1. to 3.2.4.5. inclusive as well as paragraph 3.2.4.7. of this 
annex shall be followed. 
3.2.6.2. 
Subsequently, the procedure for the charge-sustaining Type I test described 
in paragraphs 3.2.5.1. to 3.2.5.3. inclusive of this annex shall be followed. 
Paragraphs 2.1.1. and 2.1.2. of Appendix 4 to this annex shall not apply. 
3.2.6.3. 
REESS charging and measuring the recharged electric energy 
3.2.6.3.1.  
The vehicle shall be connected to the mains within 120 minutes after the 
conclusion of the charge-sustaining Type I test.  
The REESS is fully charged when the end-of-charge criterion as defined in 
paragraph 2.2.3.2. of Appendix 4 to this annex is reached. 
3.2.6.3.2. 
The energy measurement equipment, placed between the vehicle charger and 
the mains, shall measure the recharged electric energy EAC delivered from the 
mains, as well as its duration. Electric energy measurement may be stopped 
when the end-of-charge criterion as defined in paragraph 2.2.3.2. of 
Appendix 4 to this annex is reached. 
3.2.7. 
Charge-sustaining Type I test with a subsequent charge-depleting Type I test 
(Option 4) 
The test sequence according to Option 4, described in paragraphs 3.2.7.1. and 
3.2.7.2. of this annex, as well as the corresponding REESS state of charge 
profile, are shown in Figure A8.App1/4 of Appendix 1 to this annex. 
3.2.7.1. 
For the charge-sustaining Type I test, the procedure described in 
paragraphs 3.2.5.1. to 3.2.5.3. inclusive of this annex, as well as 
paragraph 3.2.6.3.1. of this annex, shall be followed. 
3.2.7.2. 
Subsequently, the procedure for the charge-depleting Type I test described in 
paragraphs 3.2.4.2. to 3.2.4.7. inclusive of this annex shall be followed. 
 



--- PAGE 376 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 376 of 762 
 
3.3. 
NOVC-HEVs 
The test sequence described in paragraphs 3.3.1. to 3.3.3. inclusive of this 
annex, as well as the corresponding REESS state of charge profile, are 
shown in Figure A8.App1/5 of Appendix 1 to this annex. 
3.3.1. 
Preconditioning and soaking 
3.3.1.1. 
Vehicles shall be preconditioned according to paragraph 2.6. of Annex B6. 
In addition to the requirements of paragraph 2.6. of Annex B6, the level of 
the state of charge of the traction REESS for the charge-sustaining test may 
be set according to the manufacturer’s recommendation before 
preconditioning in order to achieve a test under charge-sustaining operating 
condition. 
3.3.1.2. 
Vehicles shall be soaked according to paragraph 2.7. of Annex B6. 
3.3.2. 
Test conditions 
3.3.2.1. 
Vehicles shall be tested under charge-sustaining operating condition as 
defined in paragraph 3.3.6. of this Regulation. 
3.3.2.2. 
Selection of a driver-selectable mode 
For vehicles equipped with a driver-selectable mode, the mode for the 
charge-sustaining Type I test shall be selected according to paragraph 3. of 
Appendix 6 to this annex. 
3.3.3. 
Type I test procedure 
3.3.3.1. 
 
Vehicles shall be tested according to the Type I test procedure described in 
Annex B6. 
3.3.3.2. 
If required, the CO2 mass emission shall be corrected according to 
Appendix 2 to this annex. 
3.3.3.3. 
The charge-sustaining Type I test shall fulfil the applicable criteria emission 
limits according to paragraph 1.2. of Annex B6. 
3.4. 
PEVs 
3.4.1. 
General requirements 
The test procedure to determine the pure electric range and electric energy 
consumption shall be selected according to the estimated pure electric range 
(PER) of the test vehicle from Table A8/3. In the case that the interpolation 
method is applied, the applicable test procedure shall be selected according 
to the PER of vehicle H within the specific interpolation family. 
 
 



--- PAGE 377 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 377 of 762 
 
 
Table A8/3 
Procedures to determine pure electric range and electric energy 
consumption 
Applicable test cycle The estimated PER is… 
Applicable test procedure 
Test cycle according 
to  paragraph 1.4.2.1. …less than the length of 4 
applicable 
WLTP 
test 
cycles. 
Consecutive cycle Type I 
test procedure (according 
to paragraph 3.4.4.1. of 
this annex). 
…equal to or greater than 
the length of 4 applicable 
WLTP test cycles. 
Shortened Type I test 
procedure (according to 
paragraph 3.4.4.2. of this 
annex). 
 
The manufacturer shall give evidence to the Test Agency concerning the 
estimated pure electric range (PER) prior to the test. In the case that the 
interpolation method is applied, the applicable test procedure shall be 
determined based on the estimated PER of vehicle H of the interpolation 
family. The PER determined by the applied test procedure shall confirm that 
the correct test procedure was applied.  
The test sequence for the consecutive cycle Type I test procedure, as 
described in paragraphs 3.4.2., 3.4.3. and 3.4.4.1. of this annex, as well as the 
corresponding REESS state of charge profile, are shown in Figure A8.App1/6 
of Appendix 1 to this annex. 
The test sequence for the shortened Type I test procedure, as described in 
paragraphs 3.4.2., 3.4.3. and 3.4.4.2. of this annex as well as the 
corresponding REESS state of charge profile, are shown in Figure A8.App1/7 
in Appendix 1 to this annex. 
3.4.2. 
Preconditioning 
The vehicle shall be prepared according to the procedures in paragraph 3. of 
Appendix 4 to this annex. 
3.4.3. 
Selection of a driver-selectable mode 
For vehicles equipped with a driver-selectable mode, the mode for the test 
shall be selected according to paragraph 4. of Appendix 6 to this annex.  
3.4.4. 
PEV Type I test procedures 
3.4.4.1. 
Consecutive cycle Type I test procedure 
3.4.4.1.1.  
Speed trace and breaks 



--- PAGE 378 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 378 of 762 
 
The test shall be performed by driving consecutive applicable test cycles until 
the break-off criterion according to paragraph 3.4.4.1.3. of this annex is 
reached. 
Breaks for the driver and/or operator are permitted only between test cycles 
and with a maximum total break time of 10 minutes. During the break, the 
powertrain shall be switched off. 
3.4.4.1.2. 
REESS current and voltage measurement 
From the beginning of the test until the break-off criterion is reached, the 
electric current of all REESSs shall be measured according to Appendix 3 to 
this annex and the electric voltage shall be determined according to 
Appendix 3 to this annex. 
3.4.4.1.3. 
Break-off criterion 
The break-off criterion is reached when the vehicle exceeds the prescribed 
speed trace tolerance as specified in paragraph 2.6.8.3.1.2. of Annex B6 for 
4 consecutive seconds or more. The accelerator control shall be deactivated. 
The vehicle shall be braked to standstill within 60 seconds. 
3.4.4.2.  
Shortened Type I test procedure 
3.4.4.2.1.  
Speed trace 
The shortened Type I test procedure consists of two dynamic segments (𝐷𝑆1 
and 𝐷𝑆2) combined with two constant speed segments (𝐶𝑆𝑆𝑀 and 𝐶𝑆𝑆𝐸) as 
shown in Figure A8/2. 
Figure A8/2 
Shortened Type I test procedure speed trace 
 
3.4.4.2.1.1.  
Dynamic segments 



--- PAGE 379 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 379 of 762 
 
Each dynamic segment 𝐷𝑆1 and 𝐷𝑆2 consists of an applicable WLTP test 
cycle according to paragraph 1.4.2.1. of this annex followed by an applicable 
WLTP city test cycle according to paragraph 1.4.2.2. of this annex. 
3.4.4.2.1.2. 
Constant speed segment 
The constant speeds during segments 𝐶𝑆𝑆𝑀 and 𝐶𝑆𝑆𝐸 shall be identical. If the 
interpolation method is applied, the same constant speed shall be applied 
within the interpolation family. 
 
(a) 
Speed specification 
The minimum speed of the constant speed segments shall be 
80 km/h. At the request of manufacturer and with approval of the 
Test Agency, a higher constant speed in the constant speed segments 
may be selected.  
The acceleration to the constant speed level shall be smooth and 
accomplished within 1 minute after completion of the dynamic 
segments and, in the case of a break according to Table A8/4, after 
initiating the powertrain start procedure.  
The deceleration from the constant speed level shall be smooth and 
accomplished within 1 minute after completion of the constant speed 
segments. 
If the maximum speed of the vehicle is lower than the required 
minimum speed for the constant speed segments according to the 
speed specification of this paragraph, the required speed in the 
constant speed segments shall be equal to the maximum speed of the 
vehicle.  
 
(b) 
Distance determination of CSSE and CSSM 
The length of the constant speed segment 𝐶𝑆𝑆𝐸 shall be determined 
based on the percentage of the usable REESS energy 𝑈𝐵𝐸𝑆𝑇𝑃 
according to paragraph 4.4.2.1. of this annex. The remaining energy 
in the traction REESS after dynamic speed segment 𝐷𝑆2 shall be 
equal to or less than 10 per cent of 𝑈𝐵𝐸𝑆𝑇𝑃. The manufacturer shall 
provide evidence to the Test Agency after the test that this 
requirement is fulfilled. 
The length 𝑑𝐶𝑆𝑆𝑀 of constant speed segment CSSM may be 
calculated using the following equation: 
𝑑𝐶𝑆𝑆𝑀= 𝑃𝐸𝑅𝑒𝑠𝑡−𝑑𝐷𝑆1 −𝑑𝐷𝑆2 −𝑑𝐶𝑆𝑆𝐸 
 
 
where: 
 
dCSSM 
is the length of constant speed segment CSSM, km; 



--- PAGE 380 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 380 of 762 
 
 
𝑃𝐸𝑅𝑒𝑠𝑡 is the estimated pure electric range of the considered PEV, km; 
 
𝑑𝐷𝑆1 
is the length of dynamic speed segment 1, km; 
 
𝑑𝐷𝑆2 
is the length of dynamic speed segment 2, km; 
 
𝑑𝐶𝑆𝑆𝐸 
is the length of constant speed segment 𝐶𝑆𝑆𝐸, km. 
3.4.4.2.1.3. 
Breaks 
Breaks for the driver and/or operator are permitted only in the constant speed 
segments as prescribed in Table A8/4. 
 
Table A8/4 
Breaks for the driver and/or test operator 
 
Distance driven in constant speed 
segment CSSM (km) 
Maximum total break (min) 
 
Up to 100 
10 
 
Up to 150 
20 
 
Up to 200 
30 
 
Up to 300 
60 
 
More than 300 
Shall be based on the manufacturer’s 
recommendation 
 
Note: During a break, the powertrain shall be switched off. 
3.4.4.2.2. 
REESS current and voltage measurement 
From the beginning of the test until the break-off criterion is reached, the 
electric current of all REESSs and the electric voltage of all REESSs shall be 
determined according to Appendix 3 to this annex. 
3.4.4.2.3. 
Break-off criterion 
The break-off criterion is reached when the vehicle exceeds the prescribed 
speed trace tolerance as specified in paragraph 2.6.8.3.1.2. of Annex B6 for 
4 consecutive seconds or more in the second constant speed segment 𝐶𝑆𝑆𝐸. 
The accelerator control shall be deactivated. The vehicle shall be braked to a 
standstill within 60 seconds. 
3.4.4.3. 
REESS charging and measuring the recharged electric energy 
3.4.4.3.1. 
After coming to a standstill according to paragraph 3.4.4.1.3. of this annex for 
the consecutive cycle Type I test procedure and in paragraph 3.4.4.2.3. of this 



--- PAGE 381 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 381 of 762 
 
annex for the shortened Type I test procedure, the vehicle shall be connected 
to the mains within 120 minutes. 
The REESS is fully charged when the end-of-charge criterion, as defined in 
paragraph 2.2.3.2. of Appendix 4 to this annex, is reached. 
3.4.4.3.2. 
The energy measurement equipment, placed between the vehicle charger and 
the mains, shall measure the recharged electric energy EAC delivered from the 
mains as well as its duration. Electric energy measurement may be stopped 
when the end-of-charge criterion, as defined in paragraph 2.2.3.2. of 
Appendix 4 to this annex, is reached. 
3.5. 
NOVC-FCHVs  
The test sequence, described in paragraphs 3.5.1. to 3.5.3. inclusive of this 
annex, as well as the corresponding REESS state of charge profile, is shown 
in Figure A8.App1/5 in Appendix 1 to this annex. 
3.5.1. 
Preconditioning and soaking 
Vehicles shall be conditioned and soaked according to paragraph 3.3.1. of this 
annex. 
3.5.2. 
Test conditions 
3.5.2.1. 
Vehicles shall be tested under charge-sustaining operating conditions as 
defined in paragraph 3.3.6. of this Regulation. 
3.5.2.2. 
Selection of a driver-selectable mode 
For vehicles equipped with a driver-selectable mode, the mode for the charge-
sustaining Type I test shall be selected according to paragraph 3. of 
Appendix 6 to this annex. 
3.5.3. 
Type I test procedure 
3.5.3.1. 
Vehicles shall be tested according to the Type I test procedure described in 
Annex B6 and fuel consumption calculated according to Appendix 7 to this 
annex. 
3.5.3.2. 
If required, fuel consumption shall be corrected according to Appendix 2 to 
this annex. 
4.0 
Calculations for hybrid electric, pure electric and compressed hydrogen fuel 
cell vehicles 
For results after 4 phases and results after 3 phases, the calculations in this 
Annex need to be performed separately. 
4.1. 
Calculations of gaseous emission compounds, particulate matter emission and 
particle number emission 



--- PAGE 382 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 382 of 762 
 
 
4.1.1. 
Charge-sustaining mass emission of gaseous emission compounds, 
particulate matter emission and particle number emission for OVC-HEVs and 
NOVC-HEVs 
The charge-sustaining particulate matter emission 𝑃𝑀𝐶𝑆 shall be calculated 
according to paragraph 3.3. of Annex B7. 
The charge-sustaining particle number emission 𝑃𝑁𝐶𝑆 shall be calculated 
according to paragraph 4. of Annex B7.  
4.1.1.1. 
Stepwise procedure for calculating the final test results of the charge-  
sustaining Type I test for NOVC-HEVs and OVC-HEVs 
The results shall be calculated in the order described in Table A8/5. All 
applicable results in the column "Output" shall be recorded. The column 
"Process" describes the paragraphs to be used for calculation or contains 
additional calculations. 
For the purpose of this table, the following nomenclature within the equations 
and results is used: 
 
𝑐 
complete applicable test ; 
 
𝑝 
every applicable cycle phase,; 
 
𝑖 
applicable criteria emission component 
(except CO2); 
 
CS 
charge-sustaining; 
 
CO2 
CO2 mass emission. 
Table A8/5 
Calculation of final charge-sustaining gaseous emission 
 
Step 
No. 
Source 
Input 
Process 
Output 
 
1 
Annex B6 
Raw test 
results 
Charge-sustaining 
mass emissions 
Paragraphs 3. to 
3.2.2. inclusive of 
Annex B7. 
𝑀𝑖,𝐶𝑆,𝑝,1, 
g/km; 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑝,1, 
g/km. 
 
2 
Output step 1  𝑀𝑖,𝐶𝑆,𝑝,1, 
g/km; 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑝,1, 
g/km. 
Calculation of 
combined charge-
sustaining cycle 
values: 
𝑀𝑖,𝐶𝑆,𝑐,2, 
g/km; 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑐,2, 
g/km. 



--- PAGE 383 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 383 of 762 
 
𝑀𝑖,𝐶𝑆,𝑐,2
=
∑𝑀𝑖,𝐶𝑆,𝑝,1 × 𝑑𝑝
𝑝
∑𝑑𝑝
𝑝
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑐,2
=
∑𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑝,1 × 𝑑𝑝
𝑝
∑𝑑𝑝
𝑝
 
where: 
𝑀𝑖,𝐶𝑆,𝑐,2 is the charge-
sustaining mass 
emission result over 
the total cycle; 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑐,2 is the 
charge-sustaining 
CO2 mass emission 
result over the total 
cycle; 
𝑑𝑝 are the driven 
distances of the cycle 
phases p. 
 
3 
 
Output step 1 𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑝,1, 
g/km; 
 
REESS electric 
energy change 
correction 
Paragraphs 4.1.1.2. to 
4.1.1.5. inclusive of 
this annex. 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑝,3, 
g/km; 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑐,3, 
g/km. 
 
 
Output step 2  𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑐,2, 
g/km. 
 
 
 
4a 
Output step 2 
 
𝑀𝑖,𝐶𝑆,𝑐,2, 
g/km; 
 
 
Charge-sustaining 
mass emission 
correction for all 
vehicles equipped 
with periodically 
regenerating systems 
𝐾𝑖 according to 
Annex B6, 
Appendix 1. 
𝑀𝑖,𝐶𝑆,𝑐,4𝑎
= 𝐾𝑖× 𝑀𝑖,𝐶𝑆,𝑐,2 
or 
𝑀𝑖,𝐶𝑆,𝑐,4𝑎
= 𝐾𝑖+ 𝑀𝑖,𝐶𝑆,𝑐,2 
𝑀𝑖,𝐶𝑆,𝑐,4𝑎, 
g/km; 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑐,4𝑎, 
g/km. 



--- PAGE 384 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 384 of 762 
 
 
 
4b 
Output step 3 𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑝,3, 
g/km; 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑐,3, 
g/km; 
If Ki is applicable, 
align CO2 phase 
values to combined 
cycle value: 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑝,4
= 𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑝,3 × 𝐴𝐹𝐾𝑖 
for every cycle phase 
p; 
where: 
𝐴𝐹𝐾𝑖= 𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑐,4𝑎
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑐,3
 
If Ki is not 
applicable: 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑝,4
= 𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑝,3 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑝,4, 
g/km. 
Output step 
4a 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑐,4𝑎, 
g/km. 
 
4c 
For results  
Output step 
4a 
Mi,CS,c,4a, 
g/km; 
MCO2,CS,c,4a, 
g/km. 
In the case these 
values are used for 
the purpose of 
conformity of 
production, the 
criteria emission 
values and CO2 mass 
emission values shall 
be multiplied with 
Mi,CS,c,4c; 
MCO2,CS,c,4c 
and 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑐,4𝑎
= 𝐾𝐶𝑂2,𝐾𝑖
× 𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑐,3 
or 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑐,4𝑎
= 𝐾𝐶𝑂2,𝐾𝑖
+ 𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑐,3 
Additive offset or 
multiplicative factor 
to be used according 
to Ki determination. 
If Ki is not 
applicable: 
𝑀𝑖,𝐶𝑆,𝑐,4𝑎= 𝑀𝑖,𝐶𝑆,𝑐,2 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑐,4𝑎
= 𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑐,3 



--- PAGE 385 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 385 of 762 
 
the run-in factor RI 
determined according 
to paragraph 2.4. of 
this regulation: 
Mi,CS,c4c = RIC (j) × 
Mi,CS,c,4a 
MCO2,CS,c,4c = RICO2 
(j) x MCO2,CS,c,4a 
In the case these 
values are not used 
for the purpose of 
conformity of 
production: 
Mi,c,4c = Mi,c,4a 
MCO2,c,4c = MCO2,c,4a 
 
5 
Result 
of a 
single 
test. 
Output step 
4b and 4c  
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑝,4, 
g/km; 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑐,4𝑐, 
g/km; 
Placeholder for 
additional 
corrections, if 
applicable.  
Otherwise: 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑐,5 = 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑐,4𝑐 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑝,5 = 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑝,4 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑐,5, 
g/km; 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑝,5, 
g/km. 
𝑀𝑖,𝐶𝑆,𝑐,4𝑐, 
g/km; 
Apply deterioration 
factors calculated in 
accordance with this 
standard to the 
criteria emissions 
values. 
Mi,c,5 = Mi,c,4c 
In the case these 
values are used for 
the purpose of 
conformity of 
production, the 
further steps (6 to 9) 
are not required and 
𝑀𝑖,𝐶𝑆,𝑐,5, 
g/km; 
 



--- PAGE 386 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 386 of 762 
 
the output of this step 
is the final result. 
 
6 
𝑀𝑖,𝐶𝑆 
results 
of a 
Type 1 
test for 
a test 
vehicle. 
For results  
Output step 5 
For every 
test: 
𝑀𝑖,𝐶𝑆,𝑐,5, 
g/km; 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑐,5, 
g/km; 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑝,5, 
g/km. 
Averaging of tests 
and declared value 
according to 
paragraphs 1.2. to 
1.2.3. inclusive of 
Annex B6. 
𝑀𝑖,𝐶𝑆,𝑐,6, 
g/km; 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑐,6, 
g/km; 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑝,6, 
g/km; 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑐,𝑑𝑒𝑐𝑙𝑎𝑟
, g/km. 
 
7 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆 
results 
of a 
Type 1 
test for 
a test 
vehicle.  
For results 
Output step 6 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑐,6, 
g/km; 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑝,6, 
g/km; 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑐,𝑑𝑒𝑐𝑙𝑎
, g/km. 
Alignment of phase 
values. 
Paragraph 1.2.4. of 
Annex 6, 
and: 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑐,7
= 𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑐,𝑑𝑒𝑐𝑙𝑎𝑟𝑒𝑑 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑐,7, 
g/km; 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑝,7, 
g/km. 
 
For 
results  
8 
Interpo
-lation 
family 
result. 
 
Final 
criteria 
emissio
n 
result. 
If the 
interpol
ation 
method 
is not 
applied
, step 
No. 9 is 
not 
require
d and 
Output step 6 
 
For each of 
the test 
vehicles H 
and L and, 
if 
applicable, 
vehicle M: 
𝑀𝑖,𝐶𝑆,𝑐,6, 
g/km; 
If in addition to a test 
vehicle H a test 
vehicle L and, if 
applicable vehicle M 
was also tested, the 
resulting criteria 
emission value shall 
be the highest of the 
two or, if applicable, 
three values and 
referred to as 𝑀𝑖,𝐶𝑆,𝑐 
In the case of the 
combined THC+NOx 
emissions, the 
highest value of the 
sum referring to 
either the vehicle H 
or vehicle L or, if 
applicable, vehicle M 
is to be taken as the 
certification value. 
Otherwise, if no 
vehicle L or if 
applicable vehicle M 
𝑀𝑖,𝐶𝑆,𝑐, g/km; 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑐, 
g/km; 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑝, 
g/km; 
 
 
Output step 7 
 
For each of 
the test 
vehicles H 
and L and, 
if 
applicable, 
vehicle M: 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑐,7, 
g/km; 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑝,7, 
g/km. 
 



--- PAGE 387 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 387 of 762 
 
the 
output 
of this 
step is 
the 
final 
CO2 
result. 
 
was tested, 𝑀𝑖,𝐶𝑆,𝑐=
 𝑀𝑖,𝐶𝑆,𝑐,6 
In the case that the 
interpolation method 
is applied, 
intermediate 
rounding shall be 
applied according to 
paragraph 6.1.8. of 
this regulation:  
CO2 values derived 
in step 7 of this table 
shall be rounded to 
two places of 
decimal. Also, the 
output for CO2 is 
available for vehicles 
H and vehicle L and, 
if applicable, for 
vehicle M.  
In the case that the 
interpolation method 
is not applied, final 
rounding shall be 
applied according to 
Paragraph 6.1.8. of 
this regulation: 
CO2 values derived 
in step 7 of this table 
shall be rounded to 
the nearest whole 
number. 
 
For 
results  
9 
Result 
of an 
individ
ual 
vehicle. 
Final 
CO2 
result. 
Output step 8 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑐, 
g/km; 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑝, 
g/km; 
 
CO2 mass emission 
calculation according 
to paragraph 4.5.4.1. 
of this annex for 
individual vehicles in 
an interpolation 
family. 
Final rounding of 
individual vehicle 
CO2 values shall be 
performed according 
to paragraph 6.1.8. of 
this regulation. 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑐,𝑖𝑛𝑑, 
g/km; 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑝,𝑖𝑛𝑑, 
g/km. 



--- PAGE 388 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 388 of 762 
 
CO2 values shall be 
rounded to the 
nearest whole 
number. 
Output is available 
for each individual 
vehicle.  
4.1.1.2. 
In the case that the correction according to paragraph 1.1.4. of Appendix 2 to 
this annex was not applied, the following charge-sustaining CO2 mass 
emission shall be used: 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆= 𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑛𝑏 
 
where: 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆 
is the charge-sustaining CO2 mass emission of the 
charge-sustaining Type I test according to Table A8/5, 
step No. 3, g/km; 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑛𝑏 
is the non-balanced charge-sustaining CO2 mass 
emission of the charge-sustaining Type I test, not 
corrected for the energy balance, determined according 
to Table A8/5, step No. 2, g/km. 
4.1.1.3. 
If the correction of the charge-sustaining CO2 mass emission is required 
according to paragraph 1.1.3. of Appendix 2 to this annex or in the case that the 
correction according to paragraph 1.1.4. of Appendix 2 to this annex was applied, 
the corrected charge-sustaining CO2 mass emission shall be determined using the 
following equation: 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆= 𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑛𝑏−𝐾𝐶𝑂2 × 𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝑆 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆 
is the charge-sustaining CO2 mass emission of the charge-
sustaining Type I test according to Table A8/5, step No. 3, 
g/km; 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑛𝑏 
is the non-balanced CO2 mass emission of the charge-
sustaining Type I test, not corrected for the energy 
balance, determined according to Table A8/5, step No. 2, 
g/km; 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝑆 
is the electric energy consumption of the charge-
sustaining Type I test according to paragraph 4.3. of this 
annex, Wh/km; 
 
𝐾𝐶𝑂2 
is the CO2 mass emission correction coefficient 
according to paragraph 2.3.2. of Appendix 2 to this 
annex, (g/km)/(Wh/km). 



--- PAGE 389 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 389 of 762 
 
4.1.1.4. 
 where: 
In the case that phase-specific CO2 mass emission correction coefficients have 
not been determined, the phase-specific CO2 mass emission shall be calculated 
using the following equation: 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑝= 𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑛𝑏,𝑝−𝐾𝐶𝑂2 × 𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝑆,𝑝 
 
where: 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑝 
is the charge-sustaining CO2 mass emission of phase p of 
the charge-sustaining Type I test according to Table A8/5, 
step No. 3, g/km; 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑛𝑏,𝑝 
is the non-balanced CO2 mass emission of phase p of the 
charge-sustaining Type I test, not corrected for the 
energy balance, determined according to Table A8/5, 
step No. 1, g/km; 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝑆,𝑝 
is the electric energy consumption of phase p of the 
charge-sustaining Type I test according to paragraph 4.3. 
of this annex, Wh/km; 
 
𝐾𝐶𝑂2 
is the CO2 mass emission correction coefficient 
according to paragraph 2.3.2. of Appendix 2 to this 
annex, (g/km)/(Wh/km). 
4.1.1.5. 
In the case that phase-specific CO2 mass emission correction coefficients have 
been determined, the phase-specific CO2 mass emission shall be calculated 
using the following equation: 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑝= 𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑛𝑏,𝑝−𝐾𝐶𝑂2,𝑝× 𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝑆,𝑝 
 
where: 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑝 
is the charge-sustaining CO2 mass emission of phase p of 
the charge-sustaining Type I test according to Table A8/5, 
step No. 3, g/km; 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑛𝑏,𝑝 
is the non-balanced CO2 mass emission of phase p of the 
charge-sustaining Type I test, not corrected for the energy 
balance, determined according to Table A8/5, step No. 1, 
g/km; 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝑆,𝑝 
is the electric energy consumption of phase p of the charge-
sustaining 
Type 
I 
test, 
determined 
according 
to 
paragraph 4.3. of this annex, Wh/km; 
 
𝐾𝐶𝑂2,𝑝 
is the CO2 mass emission correction coefficient according 
to paragraph 2.3.2.2. of Appendix 2 to this annex, 
(g/km)/(Wh/km); 



--- PAGE 390 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 390 of 762 
 
 
𝑝 
is the index of the individual phase within the applicable 
WLTP test cycle. 
4.1.2. 
Charge-depleting CO2 mass emission for OVC-HEVs 
The utility factor-weighted charge-depleting CO2 mass emission MCO2,CD shall 
be calculated using the following equation: 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝐷= 
∑
(𝑈𝐹𝑗 × 
𝑘
𝑗=1
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝐷,𝑗)
∑
𝑈𝐹𝑗
𝑘
𝑗=1
 
 
where: 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝐷 
is the utility factor-weighted charge-depleting CO2 mass 
emission, g/km; 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝐷,𝑗 
is the CO2 mass emission determined according to 
paragraph 3.2.1. of Annex B7 of phase j of the charge-
depleting Type I test, g/km; 
 
𝑈𝐹𝑗  
is the utility factor of phase j according to Appendix 5 to this 
annex; 
 
𝑗 
is the index number of the considered phase; 
 
 
𝑘 
is the number of phases driven up to the end of the transition 
cycle according to paragraph 3.2.4.4. of this annex. 
 
In the case that the interpolation method is applied, k shall be the number of 
phases driven up to the end of the transition cycle of vehicle L, 𝑛𝑣𝑒ℎ_𝐿. 
If the transition cycle number driven by vehicle H, 𝑛𝑣𝑒ℎ𝐻, and, if applicable, by 
an individual vehicle within the vehicle interpolation family, 𝑛𝑣𝑒ℎ𝑖𝑛𝑑, is lower 
than the transition cycle number driven by vehicle L, 𝑛𝑣𝑒ℎ_𝐿, the confirmation 
cycle of vehicle H and, if applicable, an individual vehicle shall be included in 
the calculation.  
The CO2 mass emission of each phase of the confirmation cycle shall be 
subsequently corrected to an electric energy consumption of zero  
(𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝐷,𝑗= 0) by using the CO2 correction coefficient according to 
Appendix 2 to this annex. 
4.1.3. 
Utility factor-weighted mass emissions of gaseous compounds, particulate 
matter emission and particle number emission for OVC-HEVs. 
4.1.3.1. 
The utility factor-weighted mass emission of gaseous compounds. 
𝑀𝑖,𝑤𝑒𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡𝑒𝑑= ∑(𝑈𝐹𝑗
𝑘
𝑗=1
× 𝑀𝑖,𝐶𝐷,𝑗) + (1 − ∑𝑈𝐹𝑗
𝑘
𝑗=1
) × 𝑀𝑖,𝐶𝑆 



--- PAGE 391 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 391 of 762 
 
 
where: 
 
𝑀𝑖,𝑤𝑒𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡𝑒𝑑 
is the utility factor-weighted mass emission compound i, 
g/km; 
 
𝑖 
is the index of the considered gaseous emission 
compound (except CO2); 
 
𝑈𝐹𝑗 
is the utility factor of phase j according to Appendix 5 to 
this annex; 
 
𝑀𝑖,𝐶𝐷,𝑗 
is the mass emission of the gaseous emission compound 
i determined according to paragraph 3.2.1. of Annex B7 
of phase j of the charge-depleting Type I test, g/km; 
 
𝑀𝑖,𝐶𝑆 
is the charge-sustaining mass emission of gaseous 
emission compound i for the charge-sustaining Type I 
test according to Table A8/5, step No. 6, g/km; 
 
𝑗 
is the index number of the considered phase; 
 
 
𝑘 
is the number of phases driven until the end of the 
transition cycle according to paragraph 3.2.4.4. of this 
annex. 
 
For calculating the utility-factor weighted CO2 mass emission the following 
equation shall be used: 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝑤𝑒𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡𝑒𝑑= (∑𝑈𝐹𝑗
𝑘
𝑗=1
)
𝑎𝑣𝑒
× 𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝐷,𝑑𝑒𝑐𝑙𝑎𝑟𝑒𝑑
+ (1 − (∑𝑈𝐹𝑗
𝑘
𝑗=1
)
𝑎𝑣𝑒
) × 𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑑𝑒𝑐𝑙𝑎𝑟𝑒𝑑 
 
where: 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝑤𝑒𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡𝑒𝑑 
is the utility-factor weighted charge-depleting CO2 mass 
emission, g/km. 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝐷,𝑑𝑒𝑐𝑙𝑎𝑟𝑒𝑑 is the declared charge-depleting CO2 mass emission 
according to Table A8/8, step no. 14, g/km. 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑑𝑒𝑐𝑙𝑎𝑟𝑒𝑑 is the declared charge-sustaining CO2 mass emission 
according to Table A8/5, step no. 7, g/km. 
 
(∑𝑈𝐹𝑗
𝑘
𝑗=1
)
𝑎𝑣𝑒
 
is the average of the sum of utility factors of each charge-
depleting test. 



--- PAGE 392 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 392 of 762 
 
 
j 
is the index number of the considered phase; 
 
k 
is the number of phases driven until the end of the transition 
cycle according to paragraph 3.2.4.4. of this annex. 
 
In the case that the interpolation method is applied for CO2, k shall be the 
number of phases driven up to the end of the transition cycle of vehicle L 
𝑛𝑣𝑒ℎ_𝐿. for the application of both equations of this paragraph. 
If the transition cycle number driven by vehicle H, 𝑛𝑣𝑒ℎ𝐻, and, if applicable, by 
an individual vehicle within the vehicle interpolation family 𝑛𝑣𝑒ℎ𝑖𝑛𝑑 is lower than 
the transition cycle number driven by vehicle L, 𝑛𝑣𝑒ℎ_𝐿, the confirmation cycle 
of vehicle H and, if applicable, an individual vehicle shall be included in the 
calculation.  
The CO2 mass emission of each phase of the confirmation cycle shall then be 
corrected to an electric energy consumption of zero (𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝐷,𝑗= 0) by using the 
CO2 correction coefficient according to Appendix 2 to this annex. 
4.1.3.2. 
The utility factor-weighted particle number emission shall be calculated using 
the following equation: 
𝑃𝑁 𝑤𝑒𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡𝑒𝑑= ∑(𝑈𝐹𝑗
𝑘
𝑗=1
× 𝑃𝑁𝐶𝐷,𝑗) + (1 − ∑𝑈𝐹𝑗
𝑘
𝑗=1
) × 𝑃𝑁 𝐶𝑆 
 
where: 
 
𝑃𝑁 𝑤𝑒𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡𝑒𝑑 
is the utility factor-weighted particle number emission, 
particles per kilometre; 
 
𝑈𝐹𝑗 
is the utility factor of phase j according to Appendix 5 to 
this annex; 
 
𝑃𝑁𝐶𝐷,𝑗 
is the particle number emission during phase j determined 
according to paragraph 4. of Annex B7 for the charge-
depleting Type I test, particles per kilometre; 
 
𝑃𝑁𝐶𝑆 
is the particle number emission determined according to 
paragraph 4.1.1. of this annex for the charge-sustaining 
Type I test, particles per kilometre; 
 
𝑗 
is the index number of the considered phase; 
 
 
𝑘 
is the number of phases driven until the end of transition 
cycle n according to paragraph 3.2.4.4. of this annex. 
4.1.3.3. 
The utility factor-weighted particulate matter emission shall be calculated 
using the following equation: 



--- PAGE 393 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 393 of 762 
 
 
𝑃𝑀 𝑤𝑒𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡𝑒𝑑= ∑(𝑈𝐹𝑐
𝑛𝑐
𝑐=1
× 𝑃𝑀𝐶𝐷,𝑐) + (1 − ∑𝑈𝐹𝑐
𝑛𝑐
𝑐=1
) × 𝑃𝑀 𝐶𝑆 
 
where: 
 
𝑃𝑀𝑤𝑒𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡𝑒𝑑 
is the utility factor-weighted particulate matter emission, 
mg/km; 
 
𝑈𝐹𝑐 
is the utility factor of cycle c according to Appendix 5 to this 
annex; 
 
𝑃𝑀𝐶𝐷,𝑐 
is the charge-depleting particulate matter emission during 
cycle c determined according to paragraph 3.3. of 
Annex B7 for the charge-depleting Type I test, mg/km; 
 
𝑃𝑀 𝐶𝑆 
is the particulate matter emission of the charge-sustaining 
Type I test according to paragraph 4.1.1. of this annex, 
mg/km; 
 
𝑐 
is the index number of the cycle considered; 
 
 
𝑛𝑐 
is the number of applicable WLTP test cycles driven until 
the 
end 
of 
the 
transition 
cycle n 
according 
to 
paragraph 3.2.4.4. of this annex. 
4.2. 
Calculation of fuel consumption and fuel efficiency 
4.2.1. 
Charge-sustaining fuel consumption and fuel efficiency for OVC-HEVs, 
OVC-FCHVs , NOVC-HEVs and NOVC-FCHVs 
4.2.1.1. 
The charge-sustaining fuel consumption and fuel efficiency for OVC-HEVs 
and NOVC-HEVs shall be calculated stepwise according to Table A8/6. 
 



--- PAGE 394 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 394 of 762 
 
Table A8/6 
Calculation of final charge-sustaining fuel consumption OVC-HEVs, NOVC-HEVs 
Step No. 
Source 
Input 
Process 
Output 
1 
 
Output step 6, 
Table A8/5 
𝑀𝑖,𝐶𝑆,𝑐,6, 
g/km;  
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑐,6, 
g/km; 
Calculation of fuel 
consumption FCCS,c 
according to paragraph 6. of 
Annex B7 based on 
MCO2,CS,C,7  
The calculation of fuel 
consumption shall be 
performed separately for the 
applicable cycle and its 
phases. 
For that purpose: 
(a) the applicable phase or 
cycle CO2 values shall be 
used; 
(b) the criteria emission over 
the complete cycle shall be 
used. 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑐,1, l/100 
km;  
 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑝,1, l/100 
km.  
 
Output step 7, 
Table A8/5 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑐,7, 
g/km; 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑝,7, 
g/km. 
 
 
2 
Interpolation 
family result. 
If the 
interpolation 
method is 
not applied, 
step No. 3 is 
not required 
and the 
output of this 
step is the 
final result. 
Output step 1 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑐,1, 
l/100 km; 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑝,1, 
l/100 km;  
 
 
For FC the values derived in 
step No. 1 of this table shall 
be used. 
In 
the 
case 
that 
the 
interpolation 
method 
is 
applied, 
intermediate 
rounding shall be applied 
according to paragraph 6.1.8. 
of this Regulation. 
FC value shall be rounded to 
three places of decimal. 
Output 
is 
available 
for 
vehicles H and vehicle L and, 
if applicable, for vehicle M. 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is not 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑐, l/100 
km; 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑝, l/100 
km;  
 
 



--- PAGE 395 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 395 of 762 
 
applied, final rounding shall 
be applied according to 
paragraph 6.1.8. of this 
Regulation. 
FC values shall be rounded 
to first place of decimal. 
3 
Result of an 
individual 
vehicle. 
Final FC 
result. 
Output step 2 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑐, 
l/100 km; 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑝, 
l/100 km;  
 
 
 
Fuel consumption calculation 
according 
to 
paragraph 4.5.5.1.1. of this 
annex for individual vehicles 
in an interpolation family. 
Final rounding of individual 
vehicle 
values 
shall 
be 
performed 
according 
to 
paragraph 
6.1.8. 
of 
this 
Regulation. 
FC values shall be rounded to 
the first place of decimal.  
Output is available for each 
individual vehicle. 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑐,𝑖𝑛𝑑, 
l/100 km; 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑝,𝑖𝑛𝑑, 
l/100 km;  
 
4.2.1.2. 
Charge-sustaining fuel consumption for NOVC-FCHVs and OVC-FCHVs 
4.2.1.2.1. 
Stepwise procedure for calculating the final test fuel consumption results of 
the charge-sustaining Type I test for NOVC-FCHVs and OVC-FCHVs 
The results shall be calculated in the order described in Table A8/7. All 
applicable results in the column "Output" shall be recorded. The column 
"Process" describes the paragraphs to be used for calculation or contains 
additional calculations. 
For the purpose of this table, the following nomenclature within the 
equations and results is used: 
 
𝑐 
complete applicable test cycle; 
 
𝑝 
every applicable cycle phase; 
 
CS 
charge-sustaining 
 
 
 
Table A8/7 
Calculation of final charge-sustaining fuel consumption for NOVC-
FCHVs and OVC-FCHVs 



--- PAGE 396 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 396 of 762 
 
 
For results all the calculations in this table shall be for the complete cycle  
Step No. 
Source 
Input 
Process 
Output 
1 
Appendix 7 to 
this annex. 
Non-
balanced 
charge-
sustaining 
fuel 
consumption 
FCCS,nb, 
kg/100km 
Charge-sustaining fuel 
consumption FCCS,c,1 
according to 
paragraph 2.2.6. of 
Appendix 7 to this 
annex. 
 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑐,1, kg/100 
km. 
2 
Output step 1 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑐,1, 
kg/100 km. 
 
REESS electric energy 
change correction. 
Paragraphs 4.2.1.2.2. to 
4.2.1.2.5. (where 
applicable) inclusive of 
this annex. 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑐,2, kg/100 
km;  
  
3 
Result of a 
single test. 
Output step 2 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑐,2, 
kg/100 km. 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑐,3 = 𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑐,2 
 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑐,3, kg/100 
km.  
4 
Output step 3 
For every 
test: 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑐,3, 
kg/100 km. 
 
Averaging of tests and 
declared value 
according to paragraphs 
1.2. to 1.2.3. inclusive 
of Annex B6. 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑐,4, kg/100 
km.  
5 
Interpolation 
family result. 
If the 
interpolation 
method is 
not applied, 
step No. 6 is 
not required 
and the 
output of this 
step is the 
final result. 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆 results 
of a Type I 
Output step 4 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑐,4, 
kg/100 km; 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑐,𝑑𝑒𝑐𝑙𝑎𝑟𝑒𝑑
, kg/100 km. 
 
Alignment of phase 
values. 
Paragraph 1.2.4. of 
Annex B6, 
and: 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑐,5
= 𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑐,𝑑𝑒𝑐𝑙𝑎𝑟𝑒𝑑 
FC value shall be 
rounded according to 
paragraph 6.1.8. of this 
Regulation to the 
second place of decimal. 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
not applied, final 
rounding shall be 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑐,5, kg/100 
km 
 



--- PAGE 397 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 397 of 762 
 
test for a test 
vehicle. 
applied according to 
paragraph 6.1.8. of this 
Regulation to the first 
place of decimal. 
6 
Result of an 
individual 
vehicle. 
Final FC 
result. 
Output step 5 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑐,5, 
kg/100 km; 
 
 
Fuel consumption 
calculation according to 
paragraph 4.5.5.1.3. of 
this annex for individual 
vehicles in an 
interpolation family. 
Final rounding of 
individual vehicle 
values shall be 
performed according to 
paragraph 6.1.8. of this 
Regulation. 
FC values shall be 
rounded to the first 
place of decimal.  
Output is available for 
each individual vehicle. 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑐,𝑖𝑛𝑑, kg/100 
km; 
 
4.2.1.2.2. 
In the case that the correction according to paragraph 1.1.4. of Appendix 2 
to this annex was not applied, the following charge-sustaining fuel 
consumption shall be used: 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆= 𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑛𝑏 
where: 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆 
is the charge-sustaining fuel consumption of the charge-
sustaining Type I test according to Table A8/7, step 
No. 2, kg/100 km; 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑛𝑏 
is the non-balanced charge-sustaining fuel consumption 
of the charge-sustaining Type I test, not corrected for 
the energy balance, according to Table A8/7, step No. 1, 
kg/100 km. 



--- PAGE 398 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 398 of 762 
 
4.2.1.2.3. 
If the correction of the fuel consumption is required according to 
paragraph 1.1.3. of Appendix 2 to this annex or in the case that the 
correction according to paragraph 1.1.4. of Appendix 2 to this annex was 
applied, the fuel consumption correction coefficient shall be determined 
according to paragraph 2. of Appendix 2 to this annex. The corrected 
charge-sustaining fuel consumption shall be determined using the following 
equation: 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆= 𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑛𝑏−𝐾𝑓𝑢𝑒𝑙,𝐹𝐶𝐻𝑉× 𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝑆 
where: 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆 
is the charge-sustaining fuel consumption of the charge-
sustaining Type I test according to Table A8/7, step No. 2, 
kg/100 km; 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑛𝑏 
is the non-balanced fuel consumption of the charge-sustaining 
Type I test, not corrected for the energy balance, according to 
Table A8/7, step No. 1, kg/100 km; 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝑆 
is the electric energy consumption of the charge-sustaining 
Type I test according to paragraph 4.3. of this annex, Wh/km; 
 
𝐾𝑓𝑢𝑒𝑙,𝐹𝐶𝐻𝑉 is the fuel consumption correction coefficient according to 
paragraph 2.3.1 
of 
Appendix 2 
to 
this 
annex, 
(kg/100 km)/(Wh/km). 
4.2.1.2.4. 
In the case that phase-specific fuel consumption correction coefficients 
have not been determined, the phase-specific fuel consumption shall be 
calculated using the following equation: 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑝= 𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑛𝑏,𝑝−𝐾𝑓𝑢𝑒𝑙,𝐹𝐶𝐻𝑉× 𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝑆,𝑝 
 
where: 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑝 
is the charge-sustaining fuel consumption of phase p of 
the charge-sustaining Type I test according to 
Table A8/7, step No. 2, kg/100 km; 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑛𝑏,𝑝 
is the non-balanced fuel consumption of phase p of the 
charge-sustaining Type I test, not corrected for the 
energy balance, according to Table A8/7, step No. 1, 
kg/100 km; 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝑆,𝑝 
is the electric energy consumption of phase p of the 
charge-sustaining Type I test, determined according to 
paragraph 4.3. of this annex, Wh/km; 
 
𝐾𝑓𝑢𝑒𝑙,𝐹𝐶𝐻𝑉  
is the fuel consumption correction coefficient according 
to paragraph 2.3.1. of Appendix 2 to this annex, 
(kg/100 km)/(Wh/km); 



--- PAGE 399 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 399 of 762 
 
 
 
𝑝 
is the index of the individual phase within the applicable 
WLTP test cycle. 
4.2.1.2.5. 
In the case that phase-specific fuel consumption correction coefficients 
have been determined, the phase-specific fuel consumption shall be 
calculated using the following equation: 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑝= 𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑛𝑏,𝑝−𝐾𝑓𝑢𝑒𝑙,𝐹𝐶𝐻𝑉,𝑝× 𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝑆,𝑝 
 
where: 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑝 
is the charge-sustaining fuel consumption of phase p of 
the charge-sustaining Type I test according to 
Table A8/7, step No. 2, kg/100 km; 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑛𝑏,𝑝 
is the non-balanced fuel consumption of phase p of the 
charge-sustaining Type I test, not corrected for the 
energy balance, according to Table A8/7, step No. 1, 
kg/100 km; 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝑆,𝑝 
is the electric energy consumption of phase p of the 
charge-sustaining Type I test, determined according to 
paragraph 4.3. of this annex, Wh/km; 
 
𝐾𝑓𝑢𝑒𝑙,𝐹𝐶𝐻𝑉,𝑝 
is the fuel consumption correction coefficient for the 
correction of the phase p according to paragraph 2.3.1.2. 
of Appendix 2 to this annex, (kg/100 km)/(Wh/km); 
 
𝑝 
is the index of the individual phase within the applicable 
WLTP test cycle. 
4.2.2. 
The charge-depleting fuel consumption for OVC-HEVs and OVC-FCHVs 
The utility factor-weighted charge-depleting fuel consumption 𝐹𝐶𝐶𝐷 shall 
be calculated using the following equation: 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝐷= 
∑
(𝑈𝐹𝑗 × 
𝑘
𝑗=1
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝐷,𝑗)
∑
𝑈𝐹𝑗
𝑘
𝑗=1
 
 
where: 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝐷 
is the utility factor weighted charge-depleting fuel 
consumption, l/100 km in the case of OVC-HEVs and 
kg/100km in the case of OVC-FCHVs; 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝐷,𝑗 
is the fuel consumption for phase j of the charge-depleting 
Type I test, determined according to paragraph 6. of Annex 
B7, l/100 km in the case of OVC-HEVs and kg/100km in 
the case of OVC-FCHVs; 



--- PAGE 400 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 400 of 762 
 
 
𝑈𝐹𝑗  
is the utility factor of phase j according to Appendix 5 to 
this annex; 
 
𝑗 
is the index number for the considered phase; 
 
 
𝑘 
is the number of phases driven up to the end of the 
transition cycle according to paragraph 3.2.4.4. of this 
annex. 
 
For OVC-FCHVs, the considered phase j shall be the applicable WLTP test 
cycle only. 
In the case that the interpolation method is applied, k shall be the number of 
phases driven up to the end of the transition cycle of vehicle L 𝑛𝑣𝑒ℎ_𝐿. 
If the transition cycle number driven by vehicle H, 𝑛𝑣𝑒ℎ𝐻, and, if applicable, 
by an individual vehicle within the vehicle interpolation family, 𝑛𝑣𝑒ℎ𝑖𝑛𝑑, is 
lower than the transition cycle number driven by vehicle L 𝑛𝑣𝑒ℎ_𝐿 the 
confirmation cycle of vehicle H and, if applicable, an individual vehicle 
shall be included in the calculation.  
The fuel consumption of each phase of the confirmation cycle shall be 
calculated according to paragraph 6. of Annex B7 with the criteria emission 
over the complete confirmation cycle and the applicable CO2 phase value 
which shall be corrected to an electric energy consumption of zero, 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝐷,𝑗= 0, by using the CO2 mass correction coefficient (KCO2) 
according to Appendix 2 to this annex. 
4.2.3. 
Utility factor-weighted fuel consumption for OVC-HEVs and OVC-FCHVs 
The utility factor-weighted fuel consumption from the charge-depleting and 
charge-sustaining Type I test shall be calculated using the following 
equation: 
 
 
𝐹𝐶𝑤𝑒𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡𝑒𝑑= ∑(𝑈𝐹𝑗
𝑘
𝑗=1
× 𝐹𝐶𝐶𝐷,𝑗) × 𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝐷,𝑑𝑒𝑐𝑙𝑎𝑟𝑒𝑑
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝐷,𝑎𝑣𝑒
+ (1
− ∑𝑈𝐹𝑗
𝑘
𝑗=1
) × 𝐹𝐶 𝐶𝑆 
 
where: 
 
𝐹𝐶𝑤𝑒𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡𝑒𝑑 
is the utility factor-weighted fuel consumption, 
l/100 km; 
 
𝑈𝐹𝑗 
is the utility factor of phase j according to Appendix 5 to 
this annex; 



--- PAGE 401 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 401 of 762 
 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝐷,𝑗 
is the fuel consumption of phase j of the charge-depleting 
Type I test, determined according to paragraph 6. of 
Annex B7, l/100 km; 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝐷,𝑑𝑒𝑐𝑙𝑎𝑟𝑒𝑑 is the declared charge-depleting CO2 mass emission 
according to Table A8/8, step no. 14, g/km; 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝐷,𝑎𝑣𝑒 
is the average charge-depleting CO2 mass emission 
according to Table A8/8, step no. 13, g/km; 
 
𝐹𝐶 𝐶𝑆 
is the fuel consumption determined according to 
Table A8/6, step No. 1, l/100 km; 
 
𝑗 
is the index number for the considered phase; 
 
 
𝑘 
is the number of phases driven up to the end of the 
transition cycle according to paragraph 3.2.4.4. of this 
annex. 
 
The utility factor-weighted fuel consumption for OVC-FCHVs from the 
charge-depleting and charge-sustaining Type I test shall be calculated using 
the following equation: 
𝐹𝐶𝑤𝑒𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡𝑒𝑑= ∑(𝑈𝐹𝑗
𝑘
𝑗=1
× 𝐹𝐶𝐶𝐷,𝑗) × 𝐹𝐶𝐶𝐷,𝑑𝑒𝑐𝑙𝑎𝑟𝑒𝑑
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝐷,𝑎𝑣𝑒
+ (1 − ∑𝑈𝐹𝑗
𝑘
𝑗=1
) × 𝐹𝐶 𝐶𝑆 
 
 
where: 
 
𝐹𝐶𝑤𝑒𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡𝑒𝑑 
is the utility factor-weighted fuel consumption, 
kg/100km; 
 
𝑈𝐹𝑗 
is the utility factor of phase j according to Appendix 5 to 
this annex; 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝐷,𝑗 
is the fuel consumption of phase j of the charge-depleting 
Type I test, determined according to paragraph 6. of 
Annex 7, kg/100km; 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝐷,𝑑𝑒𝑐𝑙𝑎𝑟𝑒𝑑 
is the declared charge-depleting fuel consumption 
according to Table A8/9a, step no. 11, kg/100km; 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝐷,𝑎𝑣𝑒 
is the average charge-depleting CO2 mass emission 
according to Table A8/9a, step no. 10, kg/100km; 
 
𝐹𝐶 𝐶𝑆 
is the fuel consumption determined according to Table 
A8/7, step No. 1, kg/100km; 
 
𝑗 
is the index number for the considered phase; 
 



--- PAGE 402 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 402 of 762 
 
 
𝑘 
is the number of phases driven up to the end of the 
transition cycle according to paragraph 3.2.4.4. of this 
annex. 
 
For OVC-FCHVs, the considered phase j shall be the applicable WLTP test 
cycle only. 
In the case that the interpolation method is applied, k shall be the number of 
phases driven up to the end of the transition cycle of vehicle L 𝑛𝑣𝑒ℎ_𝐿. 
If the transition cycle number driven by vehicle H, 𝑛𝑣𝑒ℎ𝐻, and, if applicable, 
by an individual vehicle within the vehicle interpolation family 𝑛𝑣𝑒ℎ𝑖𝑛𝑑 is 
lower than the transition cycle number driven by vehicle L, 𝑛𝑣𝑒ℎ_𝐿, the 
confirmation cycle of vehicle H and, if applicable, an individual vehicle shall 
be included in the calculation.  
The fuel consumption of each phase of the confirmation cycle shall be 
calculated according to paragraph 6. of Annex B7 with the criteria emission 
over the complete confirmation cycle and the applicable CO2 phase value 
which shall be corrected to an electric energy consumption of 
zero 𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝐷,𝑗=  0 by using the CO2 mass correction coefficient (KCO2) 
according to Appendix 2 to this annex. 
4.3. 
Calculation of electric energy consumption 
For the determination of the electric energy consumption based on the 
current and voltage determined according to Appendix 3 to this annex, the 
following equations shall be used: 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝑗= 𝛥𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝑗
𝑑𝑗
 
 
where: 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝑗 
is the electric energy consumption over the considered 
period j based on the REESS depletion, Wh/km; 
 
∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝑗 
is the electric energy change of all REESSs during the 
considered period j, Wh; 
 
𝑑𝑗 
is the distance driven in the considered period j, km; 
 
 
And 
 
 
∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝑗= ∑∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝑗,𝑖
𝑛
𝑖=1
 
 
where: 



--- PAGE 403 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 403 of 762 
 
 
∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝑗,𝑖 
is the electric energy change of REESS i during the 
considered period j, Wh; 
 
and 
 
∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝑗,𝑖= 
1
3600 × ∫𝑈(𝑡)𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝑗,𝑖× 𝐼(𝑡)𝑗,𝑖 𝑑𝑡
𝑡𝑒𝑛𝑑
𝑡0
 
 
where: 
 
𝑈(𝑡)𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝑗,𝑖 
is the voltage of REESS i during the considered period j 
determined according to Appendix 3 to this annex, V; 
 
𝑡0 
is the time at the beginning of the considered period j,  
 
 
𝑡𝑒𝑛𝑑 
is the time at the end of the considered period j, s; 
 
𝐼(𝑡)𝑗,𝑖 
is the electric current of REESS i during the considered 
period j determined according to Appendix 3 to this 
annex, A; 
 
𝑖 
is the index number of the considered REESS; 
 
 
𝑛 
is the total number of REESS; 
 
 
𝑗 
is the index for the considered period, where a period 
can be any combination of phases or cycles; 
 
1
3600 
is the conversion factor from Ws to Wh. 
4.3.1. 
Utility factor-weighted charge-depleting electric energy consumption based 
on the recharged electric energy from the mains for OVC-HEVs and OVC-
FCHV 
The utility factor-weighted charge-depleting electric energy consumption 
based on the recharged electric energy from the mains shall be calculated 
using the following equation: 
𝐸𝐶𝐴𝐶,𝐶𝐷= 
∑
(𝑈𝐹𝑗 × 𝐸𝐶𝐴𝐶,𝐶𝐷,𝑗
𝑘
𝑗=1
)
∑
𝑈𝐹𝑗
𝑘
𝑗=1
 
 
where: 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐴𝐶,𝐶𝐷 
is the utility factor-weighted charge-depleting electric 
energy consumption based on the recharged electric energy 
from the mains, Wh/km; 
 
𝑈𝐹𝑗 
is the utility factor of phase j according to Appendix 5 to 
this annex; 



--- PAGE 404 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 404 of 762 
 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐴𝐶,𝐶𝐷,𝑗 
is the electric energy consumption based on the recharged 
electric energy from the mains of phase j, Wh/km; 
 
and 
 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐴𝐶,𝐶𝐷,𝑗= 𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝐷,𝑗×
𝐸𝐴𝐶
∑
∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝑗
𝑘
𝑗=1
 
 
where: 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝐷,𝑗 
is the electric energy consumption based on the REESS 
depletion of phase j of the charge-depleting Type I test 
according to paragraph 4.3. of this annex, Wh/km; 
 
𝐸𝐴𝐶 
is the recharged electric energy from the mains determined 
according to paragraph 3.2.4.6. of this annex, Wh; 
 
∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝑗 
is the electric energy change of all REESSs of phase j 
according to paragraph 4.3. of this annex, Wh; 
 
𝑗 
is the index number for the considered phase; 
 
𝑘 
is the number of phases driven up to the end of the transition 
cycle according to paragraph 3.2.4.4. of this annex. 
 
In the case that the interpolation method is applied, k is the number of phases 
driven up to the end of the transition cycle of L,nveh_L. 
For OVC-FCHVs, the considered phase j shall be the applicable WLTP test 
cycle only. 
4.3.2. 
Utility factor-weighted electric energy consumption based on the recharged 
electric energy from the mains for OVC-HEVs and OVC-FCHVs 
The utility factor-weighted electric energy consumption based on the 
recharged electric energy from the mains shall be calculated using the 
following equation:  
 
𝐸𝐶𝐴𝐶,𝑤𝑒𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡𝑒𝑑= (∑𝑈𝐹𝑗 
𝑘
𝑗=1
) × 𝐸𝐶𝐴𝐶,𝐶𝐷,𝑑𝑒𝑐𝑙𝑎𝑟𝑒𝑑 
 
where: 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐴𝐶,𝑤𝑒𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡𝑒𝑑 
is the utility factor-weighted electric energy consumption 
based on the recharged electric energy from the 
mains, Wh/km; 
 
𝑈𝐹𝑗  
is the utility factor of phase j according to Appendix 5 to 
this annex; 



--- PAGE 405 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 405 of 762 
 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐴𝐶,𝐶𝐷,𝑑𝑒𝑐𝑙𝑎𝑟𝑒𝑑 is the declared charge-depleting electric energy 
consumption based on the recharged electric energy from 
the mains for OVC-HEVs according to Table A8/8, step 
14 and for OVC-FCHVs according to Table A8/9a, step 
11, Wh/km; 
 
𝑗 
is the index number for the considered phase; 
 
𝑘 
is the number of phases driven up to the end of the 
transition cycle according to paragraph 3.2.4.4. of this 
annex. 
 
In the case that the interpolation method is applied, k is the number of phases 
driven up to the end of the transition cycle of vehicle L, nveh_L. 
For OVC-FCHVs, the considered phase j shall be the applicable WLTP test 
cycle only. 
4.3.3. 
Electric energy consumption for OVC-HEVs and OVC-FCHVs 
4.3.3.1. 
Determination of cycle-specific electric energy consumption 
The electric energy consumption based on the recharged electric energy from 
the mains and the equivalent all-electric range shall be calculated using the 
following equation: 
EC = 𝐸𝐴𝐶
𝐸𝐴𝐸𝑅 
 
where: 
 
EC 
is the electric energy consumption of the applicable 
WLTP test cycle based on the recharged electric energy 
from the mains and the equivalent all-electric range, 
Wh/km; 
 
EAC 
is the recharged electric energy from the mains according 
to paragraph 3.2.4.6. of this annex, Wh; 
 
EAER 
is the equivalent all-electric range for OVC-HEVs 
according to paragraph 4.4.4.1. of this annex, km. and for 
OVC-FCHVs according to paragraph 4.4.6.1. of this 
annex, km. 
4.3.3.2. 
Determination of phase-specific electric energy consumption 
The phase-specific electric energy consumption based on the recharged 
electric energy from the mains and the phase-specific equivalent all-electric 
range shall be calculated using the following equation: 
𝐸𝐶𝑝 = 
𝐸𝐴𝐶
𝐸𝐴𝐸𝑅𝑝  



--- PAGE 406 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 406 of 762 
 
 
where: 
 
𝐸𝐶𝑝 
is the phase-specific electric energy consumption based on the 
recharged electric energy from the mains and the equivalent all-
electric range, Wh/km; 
 
𝐸𝐴𝐶 
is the recharged electric energy from the mains according to 
paragraph 3.2.4.6. of this annex, Wh; 
 
𝐸𝐴𝐸𝑅𝑝 is the phase-specific equivalent all-electric range according to 
paragraph 4.4.4.2. of this annex, km. 
4.3.4 
Electric energy consumption of PEVs 
4.3.4.1. 
The electric energy consumption determined in this paragraph shall be 
calculated only if the vehicle was able to follow the applicable test cycle 
within the speed trace tolerances according to paragraph 2.6.8.3.1.2. of 
Annex B6 during the entire considered period. 
4.3.4.2. 
Electric energy consumption determination of the applicable WLTP test 
cycle 
The electric energy consumption of the applicable WLTP test cycle based on 
the recharged electric energy from the mains and the pure electric range shall 
be calculated using the following equation: 
𝐸𝐶𝑊𝐿𝑇𝐶 = 
𝐸𝐴𝐶
𝑃𝐸𝑅𝑊𝐿𝑇𝐶
 
 
where: 
 
𝐸𝐶𝑊𝐿𝑇𝐶 is the electric energy consumption of the applicable WLTP test 
cycle based on the recharged electric energy from the mains and 
the pure electric range for the applicable WLTP test cycle, 
Wh/km; 
 
EAC 
is the recharged electric energy from the mains according to 
paragraph 3.4.4.3. of this annex, Wh; 
 
𝑃𝐸𝑅𝑊𝐿𝑇𝐶 is the pure electric range for the applicable WLTP test cycle as 
calculated 
according 
to 
paragraph 4.4.2.1.1. 
or 
paragraph 4.4.2.2.1. of this annex, depending on the PEV test 
procedure used, km. 
4.3.4.3. 
Reserved. 
4.3.4.4. 
Electric energy consumption determination of the phase-specific values 
The electric energy consumption of each individual phase based on the 
recharged electric energy from the mains and the phase-specific pure electric 
range shall be calculated using the following equation: 



--- PAGE 407 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 407 of 762 
 
𝐸𝐶𝑝 = 𝐸𝐴𝐶
𝑃𝐸𝑅𝑝
 
 
where: 
 
𝐸𝐶𝑝 
is the electric energy consumption of each individual phase 
p based on the recharged electric energy from the mains and 
the phase-specific pure electric range, Wh/km 
 
EAC 
is the recharged electric energy from the mains according to 
paragraph 3.4.4.3. of this annex, Wh; 
 
𝑃𝐸𝑅𝑝 
is the phase-specific pure electric range as calculated 
according to paragraph 4.4.2.1.3. or paragraph 4.4.2.2.3. of 
this annex, depending on the PEV test procedure used, km. 
4.4. 
Calculation of electric ranges 
4.4.1. 
All-electric ranges AER for OVC-HEVs and OVC-FCHVs 
4.4.1.1. 
All-electric range AER 
The all-electric range AER for OVC-HEVs shall be determined from the 
charge-depleting Type I test described in paragraph 3.2.4.3. of this annex as 
part of the Option 1 test sequence and is referenced in paragraph 3.2.6.1. of 
this annex as part of the Option 3 test sequence by driving the applicable 
WLTP test cycle according to paragraph 1.4.2.1. of this annex. The AER is 
defined as the distance driven from the beginning of the charge-depleting 
Type I test to the point in time where the combustion engine starts consuming 
fuel. 
4.4.1.2. 
Reserved. 
4.4.2. 
Pure electric range for PEVs 
The ranges determined in this paragraph shall only be calculated if the vehicle 
was able to follow the applicable WLTP test cycle within the speed trace 
tolerances according to paragraph 2.6.8.3.1.2. of Annex B6 during the entire 
considered period. 
4.4.2.1. 
Determination of the pure electric ranges when the shortened Type I test 
procedure is applied 
4.4.2.1.1. 
The pure electric range for the applicable WLTP test cycle PERWLTC for 
PEVs shall be calculated from the shortened Type I test as described in 
paragraph 3.4.4.2. of this annex using the following equations: 
𝑃𝐸𝑅𝑊𝐿𝑇𝐶=
𝑈𝐵𝐸𝑆𝑇𝑃
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝑊𝐿𝑇𝐶
 
 
where: 



--- PAGE 408 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 408 of 762 
 
 
PERWLTC 
is the pure electric range for the applicable WLTC test cycle 
for PEVs, km; 
 
𝑈𝐵𝐸𝑆𝑇𝑃 
is the usable REESS energy determined from the beginning 
of the shortened Type I test procedure until the break-off 
criterion as defined in paragraph 3.4.4.2.3. of this annex is 
reached, Wh; 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝑊𝐿𝑇𝐶 
is the weighted electric energy consumption for the 
applicable WLTP test cycle of the shortened Type I test 
procedure Type I test, Wh/km; 
 
and 
 
 
𝑈𝐵𝐸𝑆𝑇𝑃= ∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝐷𝑆1 + ∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝐷𝑆2 + ∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝐶𝑆𝑆𝑀+ ∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝐶𝐶𝑆𝐸 
 
where: 
 
∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝐷𝑆1 
is the electric energy change of all REESSs during DS1 
of the shortened Type I test procedure, Wh; 
 
∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝐷𝑆2 
is the electric energy change of all REESSs during DS2 
of the shortened Type I test procedure, Wh; 
 
∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝐶𝑆𝑆𝑀 
is the electric energy change of all REESSs during CSSM 
of the shortened Type I test procedure, Wh; 
 
∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝐶𝑆𝑆𝐸 
is the electric energy change of all REESSs during CSSE 
of the shortened Type I test procedure, Wh; 
 
and 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝑊𝐿𝑇𝐶= ∑
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝑊𝐿𝑇𝐶,𝑗× 𝐾𝑊𝐿𝑇𝐶,𝑗
2
𝑗=1
 
 
where: 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝑊𝐿𝑇𝐶,𝑗 
is the electric energy consumption for the applicable 
WLTP test cycle of DSj of the shortened Type I test 
procedure according to paragraph 4.3. of this annex, 
Wh/km; 
 
𝐾𝑊𝐿𝑇𝐶,𝑗 
is the weighting factor for the applicable WLTP test cycle 
of DSj of the shortened Type I test procedure; 
 
and: 
 
 
 
𝐾𝑊𝐿𝑇𝐶,1 = ∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝑊𝐿𝑇𝐶,1
𝑈𝐵𝐸𝑆𝑇𝑃
 𝑎𝑛𝑑 𝐾𝑊𝐿𝑇𝐶,2 = 1 −𝐾𝑊𝐿𝑇𝐶,1 



--- PAGE 409 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 409 of 762 
 
 
 
where: 
 
𝐾𝑊𝐿𝑇𝐶,𝑗 
is the weighting factor for the applicable WLTP test cycle 
of DSj of the shortened Type I test procedure; 
 
∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝑊𝐿𝑇𝐶,1 is the electric energy change of all REESSs during the 
applicable WLTP test cycle from DS1 of the shortened Type 
I test procedure, Wh. 
4.4.2.1.2. 
Reserved. 
4.4.2.1.3. 
The phase-specific pure electric range PERp for PEVs shall be calculated 
from the Type I test as described in paragraph 3.4.4.2. of this annex by using 
the following equations: 
𝑃𝐸𝑅𝑝= 𝑈𝐵𝐸𝑆𝑇𝑃
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝑝
 
 
where: 
 
 PERp 
is the phase-specific pure electric range for PEVs, km; 
 
𝑈𝐵𝐸𝑆𝑇𝑃 
is 
the 
usable 
REESS 
energy 
according 
to 
paragraph 4.4.2.1.1. of this annex, Wh; 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝑝 
is the weighted electric energy consumption for each 
individual phase of DS1 and DS2 of the shortened Type I test 
procedure, Wh/km; 
 
In the case that phase p = low and phase p = medium, the following 
equations shall be used: 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝑝= ∑
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝑝,𝑗× 𝐾𝑝,𝑗
4
𝑗=1
 
 
 
where: 
 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝑝,𝑗 
is the electric energy consumption for phase p where the 
first phase p of DS1 is indicated as j = 1, the second phase p 
of DS1 is indicated as j = 2, the first phase p of DS2 is 
indicated as j = 3 and the second phase p of DS2 is indicated 
as j = 4 of the shortened Type I test procedure according to 
paragraph 4.3. of this annex, Wh/km; 
 
𝐾𝑝,𝑗 
is the weighting factor for phase p where the first phase p of 
DS1 is indicated as j = 1, the second phase p of DS1 is 
indicated as j = 2, the first phase p of DS2 is indicated as 



--- PAGE 410 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 410 of 762 
 
j = 3, and the second phase p of DS2 is indicated as j = 4 of 
the shortened Type I test procedure; 
 
and 
 
𝐾𝑝,1 = ∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝑝,1
𝑈𝐵𝐸𝑆𝑇𝑃
 𝑎𝑛𝑑 𝐾𝑝,𝑗= 1 −𝐾𝑝,1
3
 𝑓𝑜𝑟 𝑗= 2 … 4 
 
where: 
 
∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝑝,1 
is the energy change of all REESSs during the first phase p 
of DS1 of the shortened Type I test procedure, Wh. 
 
In the case that phase p = high, the following equations shall be used: 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝑝= ∑
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝑝,𝑗× 𝐾𝑝,𝑗
2
𝑗=1
 
 
where: 
 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝑝,𝑗 
is the electric energy consumption for phase p of DSj of the 
shortened Type I test procedure according to paragraph 4.3. 
of this annex, Wh/km; 
 
𝐾𝑝,𝑗 
is the weighting factor for phase p of DSj of the shortened 
Type I test procedure 
 
and 
 
 
𝐾𝑝,1 = ∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝑝,1
𝑈𝐵𝐸𝑆𝑇𝑃
 𝑎𝑛𝑑 𝐾𝑝,2 = 1 −𝐾𝑝,1 
 
 
where: 
 
 
∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝑝,1 
is the electric energy change of all REESSs during the first 
phase p of DS1 of the shortened Type I test procedure, Wh. 
4.4.2.2. 
Determination of the pure electric ranges when the consecutive cycle Type I 
test procedure is applied 
4.4.2.2.1. 
The pure electric range for the applicable WLTP test cycle PERWLTP for 
PEVs shall be calculated from the Type I test as described in 
paragraph 3.4.4.1. of this annex using the following equations: 
𝑃𝐸𝑅𝑊𝐿𝑇𝐶= 𝑈𝐵𝐸𝐶𝐶𝑃
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝑊𝐿𝑇𝐶
 
 
where: 



--- PAGE 411 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 411 of 762 
 
 
𝑈𝐵𝐸𝐶𝐶𝑃 
is the usable REESS energy determined from the 
beginning of the consecutive cycle Type I test procedure 
until 
the 
break-off 
criterion 
according 
to 
paragraph 3.4.4.1.3. of this annex is reached, Wh; 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝑊𝐿𝑇𝐶 
is the electric energy consumption for the applicable 
WLTP test cycle determined from completely driven 
applicable WLTP test cycles of the consecutive cycle 
Type I test procedure, Wh/km; 
 
and 
 
 
 
𝑈𝐵𝐸𝐶𝐶𝑃= ∑
∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝑗
𝑘
𝑗=1
  
 
where: 
 
 
∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝑗 
is the electric energy change of all REESSs during phase 
j of the consecutive cycle Type I test procedure, Wh; 
 
𝑗 
is the index number of the phase; 
 
𝑘 
is the number of phases driven from the beginning up to 
and including the phase where the break-off criterion is 
reached; 
 
and: 
 
 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝑊𝐿𝑇𝐶= ∑
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝑊𝐿𝑇𝐶,𝑗× 𝐾𝑊𝐿𝑇𝐶,𝑗
𝑛𝑊𝐿𝑇𝐶
𝑗=1
 
 
where:  
 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝑊𝐿𝑇𝐶,𝑗 
is the electric energy consumption for the applicable 
WLTP test cycle j of the consecutive cycle Type I test 
procedure according to paragraph 4.3. of this annex, 
Wh/km; 
 
𝐾𝑊𝐿𝑇𝐶,𝑗 
is the weighting factor for the applicable WLTP test cycle 
j of the consecutive cycle Type I test procedure; 
 
𝑗 
is the index number of the applicable WLTP test cycle; 
 
𝑛𝑊𝐿𝑇𝐶 
is the whole number of complete applicable WLTP test 
cycles driven; 
 
and 
 
 
 
𝐾𝑊𝐿𝑇𝐶,1 = ∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝑊𝐿𝑇𝐶,1
𝑈𝐵𝐸𝐶𝐶𝑃
 𝑎𝑛𝑑 𝐾𝑊𝐿𝑇𝐶,𝑗= 1 −𝐾𝑊𝐿𝑇𝐶,1
𝑛𝑊𝐿𝑇𝐶−1  𝑓𝑜𝑟 𝑗= 2 … 𝑛𝑊𝐿𝑇𝐶 



--- PAGE 412 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 412 of 762 
 
 
where: 
 
 
∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝑊𝐿𝑇𝐶,1 is the electric energy change of all REESSs during the first 
applicable WLTP test cycle of the consecutive Type I test 
cycle procedure, Wh. 
4.4.2.2.2. 
Reserved 
4.4.2.2.3 
The phase-specific pure electric range PERp for PEVs shall be calculated 
from the Type I test as described in paragraph 3.4.4.1. of this annex using the 
following equations: 
𝑃𝐸𝑅𝑝= 𝑈𝐵𝐸𝐶𝐶𝑃
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝑝
 
 
where: 
 
PERp 
is the phase-specific pure electric range for PEVs, km; 
 
𝑈𝐵𝐸𝐶𝐶𝑃 
is 
the 
usable 
REESS 
energy 
according 
to 
paragraph 4.4.2.2.1. of this annex, Wh; 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝑝 
is the electric energy consumption for the considered 
phase p determined from completely driven phases p of 
the consecutive cycle Type I test procedure, Wh/km; 
 
and 
 
 
 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝑝= ∑
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝑝,𝑗× 𝐾𝑝,𝑗
𝑛𝑝
𝑗=1
 
 
 
where: 
 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝑝,𝑗 
is the jth electric energy consumption for the considered 
phase p of the consecutive cycle Type I test procedure 
according to paragraph 4.3. of this annex, Wh/km; 
 
𝐾𝑝,𝑗 
is the jth weighting factor for the considered phase p of 
the consecutive cycle Type I test procedure; 
 
𝑗 
is the index number of the considered phase p; 
 
𝑛𝑝 
is the whole number of complete WLTC phases p driven; 
 
and 
 



--- PAGE 413 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 413 of 762 
 
𝐾𝑝,1 = ∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝑝,1
𝑈𝐵𝐸𝐶𝐶𝑃
 𝑎𝑛𝑑 𝐾𝑝,𝑗= 1 −𝐾𝑝,1
𝑛𝑝−1  𝑓𝑜𝑟 𝑗
= 2 … 𝑛𝑝 
 
where: 
 
 
∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝑝,1 
is the electric energy change of all REESSs during the 
first driven phase p during the consecutive cycle Type I 
test procedure, Wh. 
4.4.3. 
Charge-depleting cycle range for OVC-HEVs 
The charge-depleting cycle range RCDC shall be determined from the charge-
depleting Type I test described in paragraph 3.2.4.3. of this annex as part of 
the Option 1 test sequence and is referenced in paragraph 3.2.6.1. of this 
annex as part of the Option 3 test sequence. The 𝑅𝐶𝐷𝐶 is the distance driven 
from the beginning of the charge-depleting Type I test to the end of the 
transition cycle according to paragraph 3.2.4.4. of this annex. 
4.4.4. 
Equivalent all-electric range for OVC-HEVs 
4.4.4.1. 
Determination of cycle-specific equivalent all-electric range 
The cycle-specific equivalent all-electric range shall be calculated using the 
following equation:  
𝐸𝐴𝐸𝑅= (
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑑𝑒𝑐𝑙𝑎𝑟𝑒𝑑 − 𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝐷,𝑎𝑣𝑔×
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝐷,𝑑𝑒𝑐𝑙𝑎𝑟𝑒𝑑
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝐷,𝑎𝑣𝑒
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑑𝑒𝑐𝑙𝑎𝑟𝑒𝑑
) × 𝑅𝐶𝐷𝐶  
 
where: 
 
𝐸𝐴𝐸𝑅 
is the cycle-specific equivalent all-electric range, km; 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑑𝑒𝑐𝑙𝑎𝑟𝑒𝑑  is the declared charge-sustaining CO2 mass emission 
according to Table A8/5, step No. 7, g/km; 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝐷,𝑎𝑣𝑔  
is the arithmetic average charge-depleting CO2 mass 
emission according to the equation below, g/km; 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝐷,𝑑𝑒𝑐𝑙𝑎𝑟𝑒𝑑  is the declared charge-depleting CO2 mass emission 
according to Table A8/8, step no. 14, g/km; 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝐷,𝑎𝑣𝑒  
is the average charge-depleting CO2 mass emission 
according to Table A8/8, step no. 13, g/km; 
 
𝑅𝐶𝐷𝐶 
is the charge-depleting cycle range according to 
paragraph 4.4.2. of this annex, km; 
 
and 
 



--- PAGE 414 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 414 of 762 
 
 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝐷,𝑎𝑣𝑔= 
∑
(𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝐷,𝑗 ×𝑑𝑗)
𝑘
𝑗=1
∑
𝑑𝑗
𝑘
𝑗=1
  
 
where: 
 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝐷,𝑎𝑣𝑔  
is the arithmetic average charge-depleting CO2 mass 
emission, g/km. In the case of more than one charge-
depleting test, the additional average of each test shall be 
calculated; 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝐷,𝑗  
is the CO2 mass emission determined according to 
paragraph 3.2.1. of Annex B7 of phase j of the charge-
depleting Type I test, g/km; 
 
𝑑𝑗 
is the distance driven in phase j of the charge-depleting 
Type I test, km; 
 
𝑗 
is the index number of the considered phase; 
 
𝑘 
is the number of phases driven up to the end of the 
transition cycle n according to paragraph 3.2.4.4. of this 
annex. 
4.4.4.2. 
Determination of the phase-specific equivalent all-electric range 
The phase-specific equivalent all-electric range shall be calculated using the 
following equation:  
𝐸𝐴𝐸𝑅𝑝= (
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑝 − 𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝐷,𝑎𝑣𝑔,𝑝× 𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝐷,𝑑𝑒𝑐𝑙𝑎𝑟𝑒𝑑
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝐷,𝑎𝑣𝑒
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑝
)
× 
∑
∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝑗
𝑘
𝑗=1
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝐷,𝑝
 
 
where: 
 
𝐸𝐴𝐸𝑅𝑝 
is the phase-specific equivalent all-electric range for the 
considered phase p, km; 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑝  
is the phase-specific CO2 mass emission from the charge-
sustaining Type I test for the considered phase p according 
to Table A8/5, step No. 7, g/km; 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝐷,𝑑𝑒𝑐𝑙𝑎𝑟𝑒𝑑is the declared charge-depleting CO2 mass emission 
according to Table A8/8, step no. 14, g/km; 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝐷,𝑎𝑣𝑒  
is the average charge-depleting CO2 mass emission 
according to Table A8/8, step no. 13, g/km; 
 
∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝑗 
are the electric energy changes of all REESSs during the 
considered phase j, Wh. In the case of more than one charge-



--- PAGE 415 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 415 of 762 
 
depleting test, the additional average of each test shall be 
calculated; 
 
ECDC,CD,p 
is the electric energy consumption over the considered 
phase p based on the REESS depletion, Wh/km; 
 
𝑗 
is the index number of the considered phase; 
 
k 
is the number of phases driven up to the end of the transition 
cycle n according to paragraph 3.2.4.4 of this annex; 
 
and 
 
 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝐷,𝑎𝑣𝑔,𝑝= 
∑
(𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝐷,𝑝,𝑐 × 𝑑𝑝,𝑐)
𝑛𝑐
𝑐=1
∑
𝑑𝑝,𝑐
𝑛𝑐
𝑐=1
 
 
 
where: 
 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝐷,𝑎𝑣𝑔,𝑝  is the arithmetic average charge-depleting CO2 mass 
emission for the considered phase p, g/km. In the case of 
more than one charge-depleting test, the additional average 
of each test shall be calculated; 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝐷,𝑝,𝑐  
is the CO2 mass emission determined according to 
paragraph 3.2.1. of Annex B7 of phase p in cycle c of the 
charge-depleting Type I test, g/km; 
 
𝑑𝑝,𝑐 
is the distance driven in the considered phase p of cycle c of 
the charge-depleting Type I test, km; 
 
𝑐 
is the index number of the considered applicable WLTP test 
cycle; 
 
𝑝 
is the index of the individual phase within the applicable 
WLTP test cycle; 
 
𝑛𝑐 
is the number of applicable WLTP test cycles driven up to 
the 
end 
of 
the 
transition 
cycle n 
according 
to 
paragraph 3.2.4.4. of this annex; 
 
and: 
 
 
 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝐷,𝑝=
∑
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝐷,𝑝,𝑐× 𝑑𝑝,𝑐
𝑛𝑐
𝑐=1
∑
𝑑𝑝,𝑐
𝑛𝑐
𝑐=1
 
 



--- PAGE 416 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 416 of 762 
 
 
where: 
 
 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝐷,𝑝 
is the electric energy consumption of the considered phase p 
based on the REESS depletion of the charge-depleting Type 
I test, Wh/km. In the case of more than one charge-depleting 
test, the additional average of each test shall be calculated; 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝐷,𝑝,𝑐 
is the electric energy consumption of the considered phase 
p of cycle c based on the REESS depletion of the charge-
depleting Type I test according to paragraph 4.3. of this 
annex, Wh/km; 
 
𝑑𝑝,𝑐 
is the distance driven in the considered phase p of cycle c of 
the charge-depleting Type I test, km; 
 
𝑐 
is the index number of the considered applicable WLTP test 
cycle; 
 
𝑝 
is the index of the individual phase within the applicable 
WLTP test cycle; 
 
𝑛𝑐 
is the number of applicable WLTP test cycles driven up to 
the 
end 
of 
the 
transition 
cycle n 
according 
to 
paragraph 3.2.4.4. of this annex. 
 
The considered phase shall be the low phase, medium phase and high 
phase,  
4.4.5. 
Actual charge-depleting range for OVC-HEVs 
The actual charge-depleting range shall be calculated using the following 
equation: 
𝑅𝐶𝐷𝐴= ∑𝑑𝑐
𝑛−1
𝑐=1
+ ( 𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆− 𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝑛,𝑐𝑦𝑐𝑙𝑒
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆− 𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝐷,𝑎𝑣𝑔,𝑛−1
) × 𝑑𝑛 
 
where: 
 
 
𝑅𝐶𝐷𝐴 
is the actual charge-depleting range, km; 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆 
is the charge-sustaining CO2 mass emission according to 
Table A8/5, step No. 7, g/km; 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝑛,𝑐𝑦𝑐𝑙𝑒 
is the CO2 mass emission of the applicable WLTP test 
cycle n of the charge-depleting Type I test, g/km; 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝐷,𝑎𝑣𝑔,𝑛−1 is the arithmetic average CO2 mass emission of the charge-
depleting Type I test from the beginning up to and including 



--- PAGE 417 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 417 of 762 
 
the 
applicable 
WLTP 
test 
cycle  
(n-1), g/km; 
 
𝑑𝑐 
is the distance driven in the applicable WLTP test cycle c of 
the charge-depleting Type I test, km; 
 
𝑑𝑛 
is the distance driven in the applicable WLTP test cycle n of 
the charge-depleting Type I test, km; 
 
𝑐 
is the index number of the considered applicable WLTP test 
cycle; 
 
𝑛 
is the number of applicable WLTP test cycles driven 
including 
the 
transition 
cycle 
according 
to 
paragraph 3.2.4.4. of this annex; 
 
and: 
 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝐷,𝑎𝑣𝑔,𝑛−1 = 
∑
(𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝐷,𝑐 × 𝑑𝑐)
𝑛−1
𝑐=1
∑
𝑑𝑐
𝑛−1
𝑐=1
 
 
 
where: 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝐷,𝑎𝑣𝑔,𝑛−1 is the arithmetic average CO2 mass emission of the charge-
depleting Type I test from the beginning up to and including 
the applicable WLTP test cycle (n-1), g/km; 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝐷,𝑐  
is the CO2 mass emission determined according to 
paragraph 3.2.1. of Annex B7 of the applicable WLTP test 
cycle c of the charge-depleting Type I test, g/km; 
 
𝑑𝑐 
is the distance driven in the applicable WLTP test cycle c of 
the charge-depleting Type I test, km; 
 
𝑐 
is the index number of the considered applicable WLTP test 
cycle; 
 
𝑛 
is the number of applicable WLTP test cycles driven 
including 
the 
transition 
cycle 
according 
to 
paragraph 3.2.4.4. of this annex. 
4.4.6. 
Equivalent all-electric range for OVC-FCHVs 
4.4.6.1. 
Determination of cycle-specific equivalent all-electric range 
The cycle-specific equivalent all-electric range shall be calculated using the 
following equation: 



--- PAGE 418 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 418 of 762 
 
 
𝐸𝐴𝐸𝑅= (
𝐹𝐶 𝐶𝑆,𝑑𝑒𝑐𝑙𝑎𝑟𝑒𝑑 − 𝐹𝐶 𝐶𝐷,𝑎𝑣𝑔 𝑥 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝐷,𝑑𝑒𝑐𝑙𝑎𝑟𝑒𝑑
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝐷,𝑎𝑣𝑒
𝐹𝐶 𝐶𝑆,𝑑𝑒𝑐𝑙𝑎𝑟𝑒𝑑
) × 𝑅𝐶𝐷𝐶 
 
where: 
 
𝐸𝐴𝐸𝑅 
is the cycle-specific equivalent all-electric range, km; 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑑𝑒𝑐𝑙𝑎𝑟𝑒𝑑  is the declared charge-sustaining fuel consumption 
according to Table A8/7 Step 5, kg/100km; 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝐷,𝑎𝑣𝑔  
is the arithmetic average charge-depleting fuel consumption 
according to the equation below, kg/100km; 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝐷,𝑑𝑒𝑐𝑙𝑎𝑟𝑒𝑑  is the declared charge-sustaining fuel consumption 
according to Table A8/9a Step 11, kg/100km; 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝐷,𝑎𝑣𝑒  
is the arithmetic average charge-depleting fuel consumption 
according to the equation below, kg/100km; 
 
𝑅𝐶𝐷𝐶 
is the charge-depleting cycle range according to paragraph 
4.4.2. of this annex, km; 
 
And 
 
 
𝐹𝐶 𝐶𝐷,𝑎𝑣𝑔= 
∑
(𝐹𝐶𝐶𝐷,𝑗 × 𝑑𝑗)
𝑘
𝑗=1
∑
𝑑𝑗
𝑘
𝑗=1
 
 
where: 
 
𝐹𝐶 𝐶𝐷,𝑎𝑣𝑔  
is 
the 
arithmetic 
average 
charge-depleting 
fuel 
consumption, kg/100 km. In the case of more than one 
charge-depleting test, the additional average of each test 
shall be calculated; 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝐷,𝑗  
is the fuel consumption of phase j of the charge-depleting 
Type I test, kg/100km; 
 
𝑑𝑗 
is the distance driven in phase j of the charge-depleting 
Type I test, km; 
 
𝑗 
is the index number of the considered phase; 
 
𝑘 
is the number of phases driven up to the end of the 
transition cycle n according to paragraph 3.2.4.4. of this 
annex. 
4.4.6.2. 
Determination of the phase-specific equivalent all-electric range for OVC-
FCHV 



--- PAGE 419 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 419 of 762 
 
The phase-specific equivalent all-electric range shall be calculated using the 
following equation: 
𝐸𝐴𝐸𝑅𝑝= (
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑝 − 𝐹𝐶𝐶𝐷,𝑎𝑣𝑔,𝑝× 𝐹𝐶𝐶𝐷,𝑑𝑒𝑐𝑙𝑎𝑟𝑒𝑑
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝐷,𝑎𝑣𝑒
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑝
) × 
∑
∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝑗
𝑘
𝑗=1
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝐷,𝑝
 
 
 
where: 
 
𝐸𝐴𝐸𝑅𝑝 
is the phase-specific equivalent all-electric range for the 
considered phase p, km; 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑝  
is the phase-specific fuel consumption from the charge-
sustaining Type I test for the considered phase p 
according to Table A8/7, step No. 5, kg/100km; 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝐷,𝑑𝑒𝑐𝑙𝑎𝑟𝑒𝑑  
is the declared charge-depleting fuel consumption 
according to Table A8/9a, step no. 11, kg/100km; 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝐷,𝑎𝑣𝑒  
is the average charge-depleting fuel consumption 
according to Table A8/9a, step no. 10, kg/100km; 
 
∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝑗 
are the electric energy changes of all REESSs during the 
considered phase j, Wh. In the case of more than one 
charge-depleting test, the additional average of each test 
shall be calculated; 
 
ECDC,CD,p 
is the electric energy consumption over the considered 
phase p based on the REESS depletion, Wh/km; 
 
𝑗 
is the index number of the considered phase; 
 
k 
is the number of phases driven up to the end of the 
transition cycle n according to paragraph 3.2.4.4 of this 
annex; 
 
and 
 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝐷,𝑎𝑣𝑔,𝑝= 
∑
(𝐹𝐶𝐶𝐷,𝑝,𝑐 × 𝑑𝑝,𝑐)
𝑛𝑐
𝑐=1
∑
𝑑𝑝,𝑐
𝑛𝑐
𝑐=1
 
 
where: 
 
 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝐷,𝑎𝑣𝑔,𝑝  
is 
the 
arithmetic 
average 
charge-depleting 
fuel 
consumption for the considered phase p, g/km. In the 
case of more than one charge-depleting test, the 
additional average of each test shall be calculated, 
kg/100km; 



--- PAGE 420 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 420 of 762 
 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝐷,𝑝,𝑐  
is the fuel consumption determined according to 
paragraph 3.2.1. of Annex B7 of phase p in cycle c of the 
charge-depleting Type I test, kg/100km; 
 
𝑑𝑝,𝑐 
is the distance driven in the considered phase p of cycle 
c of the charge-depleting Type I test, km; 
 
𝑐 
is the index number of the considered applicable WLTP 
test cycle; 
 
𝑝 
is the index of the individual phase within the applicable 
WLTP test cycle; 
 
𝑛𝑐 
is the number of applicable WLTP test cycles driven up 
to the end of the transition cycle n according to paragraph 
3.2.4.4. of this annex; 
 
and: 
 
 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝐷,𝑝=
∑
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝐷,𝑝,𝑐× 𝑑𝑝,𝑐
𝑛𝑐
𝑐=1
∑
𝑑𝑝,𝑐
𝑛𝑐
𝑐=1
 
 
 
where: 
 
 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝐷,𝑝 
is the electric energy consumption of the considered 
phase p based on the REESS depletion of the charge-
depleting Type I test, Wh/km. In the case of more than 
one charge-depleting test, the additional average of each 
test shall be calculated; 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝐷,𝑝,𝑐 
is the electric energy consumption of the considered 
phase p of cycle c based on the REESS depletion of the 
charge-depleting Type I test according to paragraph 4.3. 
of this annex, Wh/km; 
 
𝑑𝑝,𝑐) 
is the distance driven in the considered phase p of cycle 
c of the charge-depleting Type I test, km; 
 
𝑐 
is the index number of the considered applicable WLTP 
test cycle; 
 
𝑝 
is the index of the individual phase within the applicable 
WLTP test cycle; 
 
𝑛𝑐 
is the number of applicable WLTP test cycles driven up 
to the end of the transition cycle n according to paragraph 
3.2.4.4. of this annex. 



--- PAGE 421 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 421 of 762 
 
 
The considered phase shall be the low phase, medium phase and  high 
phase 
4.4.7 
Actual charge-depleting range for OVC-FCHVs 
 
The actual charge-depleting range shall be calculated using the following 
equation: 
 
𝑅𝐶𝐷𝐴= ∑𝑑𝑐
𝑛−1
𝑐=1
+ ( 𝐹𝐶 𝐶𝑆− 𝐹𝐶𝑛,𝑐𝑦𝑐𝑙𝑒
𝐹𝐶 𝐶𝑆− 𝐹𝐶𝐶𝐷,𝑎𝑣𝑔,𝑛−1
) × 𝑑𝑛 
 
where: 
 
𝑅𝐶𝐷𝐴  
is the actual charge-depleting range, km; 
 
𝐹𝐶 𝐶𝑆 
is the charge-sustaining fuel consumption according to 
Table A8/7, step no. 5, kg/100km; 
 
𝐹𝐶𝑛,𝑐𝑦𝑐𝑙𝑒 
is the fuel consumption of the applicable WLTP test 
cycle n of the charge-depleting Type I test, kg/100km; 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝐷,𝑎𝑣𝑔,𝑛−1 
is the arithmetic average fuel consumption of the charge-
depleting Type I test from the beginning up to and 
including the applicable WLTP test cycle (n-1), 
kg/100km; 
 
𝑑𝑐 
is the distance driven in the applicable WLTP test cycle 
c of the charge-depleting Type I test, km; 
 
𝑑𝑛 
is the distance driven in the applicable WLTP test cycle 
n of the charge-depleting Type I test, km; 
 
𝑐 
is the index number of the considered applicable WLTP 
test cycle; 
 
𝑛 
is the number of applicable WLTP test cycles driven 
including the transition cycle according to paragraph 
3.2.4.4. of this annex; 
 
and 
 
 
where 
 
 
 
 
 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝐷,𝑎𝑣𝑔,𝑛−1 = 
∑
(𝐹𝐶𝐶𝐷,𝑐 ×𝑑𝑐)
𝑛−1
𝑐=1
∑
𝑑𝑐
𝑛−1
𝑐=1
 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝐷,𝑎𝑣𝑔,𝑛−1 
is the arithmetic average fuel consumption of the charge-  
depleting Type I test from the beginning up to and 
including the applicable WLTP test cycle (n-1), kg/100 
km; 
 



--- PAGE 422 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 422 of 762 
 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝐷,𝑐  
is the fuel consumption of the applicable WLTP test 
cycle c of the charge-depleting Type I test, kg/100km; 
 
𝑑𝑐 
is the distance driven in the applicable WLTP test cycle 
c of the charge-depleting Type I test, km; 
 
𝑐 
is the index number of the considered applicable WLTP 
test cycle; 
 
𝑛 
is the number of applicable WLTP test cycles driven 
including the transition cycle according to paragraph 
3.2.4.4. of this annex. 
4.5. 
Interpolation of individual vehicle values 
4.5.1. 
Interpolation range 
4.5.1.1. 
Interpolation range for NOVC- HEVs and OVC-HEVs 
4.5.1.1.1 
The interpolation method shall only be used if the difference in charge-
sustaining CO2 over the applicable cycle resulting from step 8 of Table A8/5 
in Annex B8 between test vehicles L and H is between a minimum of 5 g/km 
and a maximum defined in paragraph 4.5.1.1.2. of this annex. 
4.5.1.1.2. 
The maximum difference in charge-sustaining CO2 allowed over the 
applicable cycle resulting from the calculation of the charge-sustaining CO2 
mass emission MCO2,CS from step 8 in Table A8/5 of Annex B8 between test 
vehicles L and H shall be 20 per cent of the charge-sustaining CO2 emissions 
from vehicle H plus 5 g/km, but shall be at least 15 g/km and not exceed 
20 g/km. See Figure A8/3. This restriction does not apply for the application 
of a road load matrix family or when the calculation of the road load of 
vehicles L and H is based on the default road load. 
 
Figure A8/3 
Interpolation range between vehicle H and vehicle L applied to EVs 
 
 



--- PAGE 423 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 423 of 762 
 
4.5.1.1.3. 
The allowed interpolation range defined in paragraph 4.5.1.1.2. of this 
annex may be increased by 10 g/km charge-sustaining CO2 if a vehicle M is 
tested within that family and the conditions according to 
paragraph 4.5.1.1.5. of this annex are fulfilled. This increase is allowed only 
once within an interpolation family. See Figure A8/4. 
 
Figure A8/4 
Interpolation range for EVs with vehicle M 
 
 
4.5.1.1.4. 
At the request of the manufacturer and with approval of the Test Agency, the 
application of the interpolation method on individual vehicle values within a 
family may be extended if the maximum extrapolation of an individual 
vehicle (Step 9 in Table A8/5) is not more than 3 g/km above the charge-
sustaining CO2 mass emission of vehicle H (Step 8 in Table A8/5) and/or is 
not more than 3 g/km below the charge-sustaining CO2 mass emission of 
vehicle L (Step 8 in Table A8/5). This extrapolation is valid only within the 
absolute boundaries of the interpolation range specified in this paragraph. 
For the application of a road load matrix family, or when the calculation of 
the road load of vehicles L and H is based on the default road load, 
extrapolation is not permitted. 
4.5.1.1.5. 
Vehicle M 
Vehicle M is a vehicle within the interpolation family between vehicles L 
and H with a cycle energy demand which is preferably closest to the average 
of vehicles L and H. 
The limits of the selection of vehicle M (see Figure A8/5) are such that 
neither the difference in CO2 mass emission between vehicles H and M nor 
the difference in charge-sustaining CO2 mass emission between vehicles M 



--- PAGE 424 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 424 of 762 
 
and L is higher than the allowed charge-sustaining CO2 range according to 
paragraph 4.5.1.1.2. of this annex. The defined road load coefficients and the 
defined test mass shall be recorded. 
 
Figure A8/5 
Limits for the selection of vehicle M 
 
 
 
In the case of a 4-phase calculation the linearity of the corrected measured 
and averaged charge-sustaining CO2 mass emission for vehicle M, 
MCO2,c,6,M according to step 6 of Table A8/5 of Annex 8, shall be verified 
against the linearly interpolated charge-sustaining CO2 mass emission 
between vehicles L and H over the applicable cycle by using the corrected 
measured  and averaged charge-sustaining CO2 mass emission MCO2,c,6,H 
of vehicle H and MCO2,c,6,L of vehicle L, according to step 6 of Table A8/5 
of Annex 8, for the linear CO2 mass emission interpolation. 
In the case of a 3-phase calculation an additional averaging of tests using the 
charge-sustaining CO2-output of step 4a is necessary (not described in Table 
A8/5). The linearity of the corrected measured and averaged charge-
sustaining CO2 mass emission for vehicle M, MCO2,c,4a,M according to 
step 4a of Table A8/5 of Annex 8, shall be verified against the linearly 
interpolated CO2 mass emission between vehicles L and H over the 
applicable cycle by using the corrected measured  and averaged charge-
sustaining CO2 mass emission MCO2,c,4a,H of vehicle H and MCO2,c,4a,L 
of vehicle L, according to step 4a used in of Table A8/5 of Annex 8, for the 
linear CO2 mass emission interpolation. 
The linearity criterion for vehicle M shall be considered fulfilled if the 
charge-sustaining CO2 mass emission of vehicle M over the applicable 
WLTC minus the charge-sustaining CO2 mass emission derived by 
interpolation is less than 2 g/km or 3 per cent of the interpolated value, 
whichever value is less, but at least 1 g/km. See Figure A8/6. 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 425 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 425 of 762 
 
 
Figure A8/6 
Linearity criterion for vehicle M 
 
 
 
If the linearity criterion is fulfilled, the interpolation method shall be 
applicable for all individual vehicle values between vehicles L and H within 
the interpolation family. 
If the linearity criterion is not fulfilled, the interpolation family shall be split 
into two sub-families for vehicles with a cycle energy demand between 
vehicles L and M, and vehicles with a cycle energy demand between 
vehicles M and H. In such a case, the final values of e.g. the charge-sustaining 
CO2 mass emissions of vehicle M shall be determined according to the same 
process as for vehicles L or H. See Table A8/5, Table A8/6, Table A8/8 and 
Table A8/9. 
For vehicles with a cycle energy demand between that of vehicles L and M, 
each parameter of vehicle H necessary for the application of the interpolation 
method on individual OVC-HEV and NOVC-HEV values, shall be 
substituted by the corresponding parameter of vehicle M.  
For vehicles with a cycle energy demand between that of vehicles M and H, 
each parameter of vehicle L that is necessary for the application of the 
interpolation method on individual OVC-HEV and NOVC-HEV values shall 
be substituted by the corresponding parameter of vehicle M. 
4.5.2. 
Calculation of energy demand per period 
The energy demand 𝐸𝑘,𝑝 and distance driven 𝑑𝑐,𝑝 per period p applicable 
for individual vehicles in the interpolation family shall be calculated 
according to the procedure in paragraph 5. of Annex B7, for the sets k of 
road load coefficients and masses according to paragraph 3.2.3.2.3. of 
Annex B7. 
4.5.3. 
Calculation of the interpolation coefficient for individual vehicles 𝐾𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝑝 



--- PAGE 426 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 426 of 762 
 
The interpolation coefficient 𝐾𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝑝 per period shall be calculated for each 
considered period p using the following equation: 
𝐾𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝑝= 𝐸3,𝑝−𝐸1,𝑝
𝐸2,𝑝−𝐸1,𝑝
 
 
where: 
 
𝐾𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝑝 
is the interpolation coefficient for the considered 
individual vehicle for period p; 
 
𝐸1,𝑝 
is the energy demand for the considered period for 
vehicle L according to paragraph 5. of Annex B7, Ws; 
 
𝐸2,𝑝 
is the energy demand for the considered period for 
vehicle H according to paragraph 5. of Annex B7, Ws; 
 
𝐸3,𝑝 
is the energy demand for the considered period for the 
individual vehicle according to paragraph 5. of 
Annex B7, Ws; 
 
𝑝 
is the index of the individual period within the applicable 
test cycle. 
 
In the case that the considered period p is the applicable WLTP test cycle, 
𝐾𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝑝 is named 𝐾𝑖𝑛𝑑. 
4.5.4. 
Interpolation of the CO2 mass emission for individual vehicles 
4.5.4.1. 
Individual charge-sustaining CO2 mass emission for OVC-HEVs and 
NOVC-HEVs 
The charge-sustaining CO2 mass emission for an individual vehicle shall be 
calculated using the following equation: 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2−𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝐶𝑆,𝑝= 𝑀𝐶𝑂2−𝐿,𝐶𝑆,𝑝+ 𝐾𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝑝× (𝑀𝐶𝑂2−𝐻,𝐶𝑆,𝑝−𝑀𝐶𝑂2−𝐿,𝐶𝑆,𝑝) 
 
where: 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2−𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝐶𝑆,𝑝 
is the charge-sustaining CO2 mass emission for an 
individual vehicle of the considered period p according 
to Table A8/5, step No. 9, g/km; 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2−𝐿,𝐶𝑆,𝑝 
is the charge-sustaining CO2 mass emission for vehicle L 
of the considered period p according to Table A8/5, step 
No. 8, g/km; 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2−𝐻,𝐶𝑆,𝑝 
is the charge-sustaining CO2 mass emission for vehicle H 
of the considered period p according to Table A8/5, step 
No. 8, g/km; 



--- PAGE 427 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 427 of 762 
 
 
𝐾𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝑝 
is the interpolation coefficient for the considered 
individual vehicle for period p; 
 
𝑝 
is the index of the individual period within the applicable 
WLTP test cycle. 
 
The considered periods shall be the low phase, medium phase and  high 
phase, and the applicable WLTP test cycle.  
4.5.4.2. 
Individual utility factor-weighted charge-depleting CO2 mass emission for 
OVC-HEVs 
The utility factor-weighted charge-depleting CO2 mass emission for an 
individual vehicle shall be calculated using the following equation: 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2−𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝐶𝐷= 𝑀𝐶𝑂2−𝐿,𝐶𝐷+ 𝐾𝑖𝑛𝑑× (𝑀𝐶𝑂2−𝐻,𝐶𝐷−𝑀𝐶𝑂2−𝐿,𝐶𝐷) 
 
where: 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2−𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝐶𝐷 
is the utility factor-weighted charge-depleting CO2 mass 
emission for an individual vehicle, g/km; 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2−𝐿,𝐶𝐷 
is the utility factor-weighted charge-depleting CO2 mass 
emission for vehicle L, g/km; 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2−𝐻,𝐶𝐷 
is the utility factor-weighted charge-depleting CO2 mass 
emission for vehicle H, g/km; 
 
𝐾𝑖𝑛𝑑 
is the interpolation coefficient for the considered individual 
vehicle for the applicable WLTP test cycle. 
4.5.4.3. 
Individual utility factor-weighted CO2 mass emission for OVC-HEVs 
The utility factor-weighted CO2 mass emission for an individual vehicle shall 
be calculated using the following equation: 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2−𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝑤𝑒𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡𝑒𝑑
= 𝑀𝐶𝑂2−𝐿,𝑤𝑒𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡𝑒𝑑
+ 𝐾𝑖𝑛𝑑× (𝑀𝐶𝑂2−𝐻,𝑤𝑒𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡𝑒𝑑−𝑀𝐶𝑂2−𝐿,𝑤𝑒𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡𝑒𝑑) 
 
where: 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2−𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝑤𝑒𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡𝑒𝑑 is the utility factor-weighted CO2 mass emission for an 
individual vehicle, g/km; 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2−𝐿,𝑤𝑒𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡𝑒𝑑 is the utility factor-weighted CO2 mass emission for 
vehicle L, g/km; 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2−𝐻,𝑤𝑒𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡𝑒𝑑 is the utility factor-weighted CO2 mass emission for 
vehicle H, g/km; 



--- PAGE 428 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 428 of 762 
 
 
𝐾𝑖𝑛𝑑 
is the interpolation coefficient for the considered 
individual vehicle for the applicable WLTP test cycle. 
4.5.5. 
Interpolation of the fuel consumption and fuel efficiency for individual 
vehicles 
4.5.5.1. 
Individual charge-sustaining fuel consumption and fuel efficiency for OVC-
HEVs, NOVC-HEVs, NOVC-FCHVs and OVC-FCHVs 
4.5.5.1.1. 
Individual charge-sustaining fuel consumption for OVC-HEVs and NOVC-
HEVs 
The charge-sustaining fuel consumption for an individual vehicle shall be 
calculated using the following equation: 
 
𝐹𝐶𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝐶𝑆,𝑝= 𝐹𝐶𝐿,𝐶𝑆,𝑝+ 𝐾𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝑝× (𝐹𝐶𝐻,𝐶𝑆,𝑝−𝐹𝐶𝐿,𝐶𝑆,𝑝) 
 
where: 
 
𝐹𝐶𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝐶𝑆,𝑝 
is the charge-sustaining fuel consumption for an individual 
vehicle of the considered period p according to Table A8/6, 
step No. 3, l/100 km; 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐿,𝐶𝑆,𝑝 
is the charge-sustaining fuel consumption for vehicle L of 
the considered period p according to Table A8/6, step No. 2, 
l/100 km; 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐻,𝐶𝑆,𝑝 
is the charge-sustaining fuel consumption for vehicle H of 
the considered period p according to Table A8/6, step No. 2, 
l/100 km; 
 
𝐾𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝑝 
is the interpolation coefficient for the considered individual 
vehicle for period p; 
 
𝑝 
is the index of the individual period within the applicable 
WLTP test cycle. 
 
The considered periods shall be the low phase, medium phase and high 
phase, and the applicable WLTP test cycle.  
4.5.5.1.2 
Reserved. 
4.5.5.1.3. 
Individual charge-sustaining fuel consumption for OVC-FCHVs and 
NOVC-FCHVs 
The charge-sustaining fuel consumption for an individual vehicle shall be 
calculated using the following equation: 
 
𝐹𝐶𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝐶𝑆,𝑝= 𝐹𝐶𝐿,𝐶𝑆,𝑝+ 𝐾𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝑝× (𝐹𝐶𝐻,𝐶𝑆,𝑝−𝐹𝐶𝐿,𝐶𝑆,𝑝) 
 
where: 



--- PAGE 429 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 429 of 762 
 
 
𝐹𝐶𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝐶𝑆,𝑝 
is the charge-sustaining fuel consumption for an 
individual vehicle of the considered period p according 
to Table A8/7, step No. 6, kg/100km; 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐿,𝐶𝑆,𝑝 
is the charge-sustaining fuel consumption for vehicle L 
of the considered period p according to Table A8/7, step 
No. 5, kg/100km; 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐻,𝐶𝑆,𝑝 
is the charge-sustaining fuel consumption for vehicle H 
of the considered period p according to Table A8/7, step 
No. 5, kg/100km; 
 
𝐾𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝑝 
is the interpolation coefficient for the considered 
individual vehicle for period p; 
 
𝑝 
is the index of the individual period within the applicable 
WLTP test cycle. 
 
The considered periods shall be the low phase, medium phase, high phase,  
and the applicable WLTP test cycle. 
4.5.5.2. 
Individual charge depleting fuel consumption for OVC-HEVs and OVC-
FCHVs 
The utility factor-weighted charge-depleting fuel consumption for an 
individual vehicle shall be calculated using the following equation: 
 
𝐹𝐶𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝐶𝐷= 𝐹𝐶𝐿,𝐶𝐷+ 𝐾𝑖𝑛𝑑× (𝐹𝐶𝐻,𝐶𝐷−𝐹𝐶𝐿,𝐶𝐷) 
 
where: 
 
𝐹𝐶𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝐶𝐷 
is the utility factor-weighted charge-depleting fuel 
consumption for an individual vehicle, l/100 km in the 
case of OVC-HEVs and kg/100km in the case of OVC-
FCHVs; 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐿,𝐶𝐷 
is the utility factor-weighted charge-depleting fuel 
consumption for vehicle L, l/100 km in the case of OVC-
HEVs and kg/100km in the case of OVC-FCHVs; 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐻,𝐶𝐷 
is the utility factor-weighted charge-depleting fuel 
consumption for vehicle H, l/100 km in the case of OVC-
HEVs and kg/100km in the case of OVC-FCHVs; 
 
𝐾𝑖𝑛𝑑 
is the interpolation coefficient for the considered 
individual vehicle for the applicable WLTP test cycle. 



--- PAGE 430 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 430 of 762 
 
4.5.5.3. 
Individual utility factor-weighted fuel consumption for OVC-HEVs and 
OVC-FCHVs 
The utility factor-weighted fuel consumption for an individual vehicle shall 
be calculated using the following equation: 
 
𝐹𝐶𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝑤𝑒𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡𝑒𝑑= 𝐹𝐶𝐿,𝑤𝑒𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡𝑒𝑑+ 𝐾𝑖𝑛𝑑× (𝐹𝐶𝐻,𝑤𝑒𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡𝑒𝑑−𝐹𝐶𝐿,𝑤𝑒𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡𝑒𝑑) 
 
where: 
 
 
𝐹𝐶𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝑤𝑒𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡𝑒𝑑 
is the utility factor-weighted fuel consumption for an 
individual vehicle, l/100 km in the case of OVC-HEVs 
and kg/100km in the case of OVC-FCHVs; 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐿,𝑤𝑒𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡𝑒𝑑 
is the utility factor-weighted fuel consumption for 
vehicle L, l/100 km in the case of OVC-HEVs and 
kg/100km in the case of OVC-FCHVs; 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐻,𝑤𝑒𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡𝑒𝑑 
is the utility factor-weighted fuel consumption for 
vehicle H, l/100 km in the case of OVC-HEVs and 
kg/100km in the case of OVC-FCHVs; 
 
𝐾𝑖𝑛𝑑 
is the interpolation coefficient for the considered 
individual vehicle for the applicable WLTP test cycle. 
4.5.6. 
Interpolation of electric energy consumption for individual vehicles 
4.5.6.1. 
Individual utility factor-weighted charge-depleting electric energy 
consumption based on the recharged electric energy from the mains for 
OVC-HEVs and OVC-FCHVs 
The utility factor-weighted charge-depleting electric energy consumption 
based on the recharged electric energy from for an individual vehicle shall 
be calculated using the following equation: 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐴𝐶−𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝐶𝐷= 𝐸𝐶𝐴𝐶−𝐿,𝐶𝐷+ 𝐾𝑖𝑛𝑑× (𝐸𝐶𝐴𝐶−𝐻,𝐶𝐷−𝐸𝐶𝐴𝐶−𝐿,𝐶𝐷) 
 
where: 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐴𝐶−𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝐶𝐷 
is the utility factor-weighted charge-depleting electric 
energy consumption based on the recharged electric 
energy from the mains for an individual vehicle, Wh/km; 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐴𝐶−𝐿,𝐶𝐷 
is the utility factor-weighted charge-depleting electric 
energy consumption based on the recharged electric 
energy from the mains for vehicle L, Wh/km; 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐴𝐶−𝐻,𝐶𝐷 
is the utility factor-weighted charge-depleting electric 
energy consumption based on the recharged electric 
energy from the mains for vehicle H, Wh/km; 



--- PAGE 431 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 431 of 762 
 
 
𝐾𝑖𝑛𝑑 
is the interpolation coefficient for the considered 
individual vehicle for the applicable WLTP test cycle. 
4.5.6.2. 
Individual utility factor-weighted electric energy consumption based on the 
recharged electric energy from the mains for OVC-HEVs OVC-FCHVs 
The utility factor-weighted electric energy consumption based on the 
recharged electric energy from the mains for an individual vehicle shall be 
calculated using the following equation: 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐴𝐶−𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝑤𝑒𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡𝑒𝑑
= 𝐸𝐶𝐴𝐶−𝐿,𝑤𝑒𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡𝑒𝑑
+ 𝐾𝑖𝑛𝑑× (𝐸𝐶𝐴𝐶−𝐻,𝑤𝑒𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡𝑒𝑑−𝐸𝐶𝐴𝐶−𝐿,𝑤𝑒𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡𝑒𝑑) 
 
where: 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐴𝐶−𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝑤𝑒𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡𝑒is the utility factor weighted electric energy consumption 
based on the recharged electric energy from the mains for 
an individual vehicle, Wh/km; 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐴𝐶−𝐿,𝑤𝑒𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡𝑒𝑑is the utility factor weighted electric energy consumption 
based on the recharged electric energy from the mains for 
vehicle L, Wh/km; 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐴𝐶−𝐻,𝑤𝑒𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡𝑒𝑑is the utility factor weighted electric energy consumption 
based on the recharged electric energy from the mains for 
vehicle H, Wh/km; 
 
𝐾𝑖𝑛𝑑 
is the interpolation coefficient for the considered individual 
vehicle for the applicable WLTP test cycle. 
4.5.6.3. 
Individual electric energy consumption for OVC-HEVs , OVC-FCHVs and 
PEVs 
The electric energy consumption for an individual vehicle according to 
paragraph 4.3.3. of this annex in the case of OVC-HEVs and according to 
paragraph 4.3.4. of this annex in the case of PEVs shall be calculated using 
the following equation: 
 
𝐸𝐶𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝑝= 𝐸𝐶𝐿,𝑝+ 𝐾𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝑝× (𝐸𝐶𝐻,𝑝−𝐸𝐶𝐿,𝑝) 
 
where: 
 
𝐸𝐶𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝑝 
is the electric energy consumption for an individual vehicle 
for the considered period p, Wh/km; 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐿,𝑝 
is the electric energy consumption for vehicle L for the 
considered period p, Wh/km; 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐻,𝑝 
is the electric energy consumption for vehicle H for the 
considered period p, Wh/km; 



--- PAGE 432 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 432 of 762 
 
 
𝐾𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝑝 
is the interpolation coefficient for the considered individual 
vehicle for period p; 
 
𝑝 
is the index of the individual period within the applicable 
test cycle. 
 
The considered periods shall be the low phase, medium phase, high phase, 
and the applicable WLTP test cycle.  
4.5.7. 
Interpolation of electric ranges for individual vehicles 
4.5.7.1. 
Individual all-electric range for OVC-HEVs and OVC-FCHVs  
If the following criterion  
 
| 𝐴𝐸𝑅𝐿
𝑅𝐶𝐷𝐴,𝐿
−𝐴𝐸𝑅𝐻
𝑅𝐶𝐷𝐴,𝐻
| ≤0.1 
 
where: 
 
𝐴𝐸𝑅𝐿 
is the all-electric range of vehicle L for the applicable WLTP 
test cycle, km; 
 
𝐴𝐸𝑅𝐻 
is the all-electric range of vehicle H for the applicable WLTP 
test cycle, km; 
 
𝑅𝐶𝐷𝐴,𝐿 
is the actual charge-depleting range of vehicle L, km; 
 
𝑅𝐶𝐷𝐴,𝐻 
is the actual charge-depleting range of vehicle H, km; 
 
is fulfilled, the all-electric range for an individual vehicle shall be 
calculated using the following equation: 
𝐴𝐸𝑅𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝑝= 𝐴𝐸𝑅𝐿,𝑝+ 𝐾𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝑝× (𝐴𝐸𝑅𝐻,𝑝−𝐴𝐸𝑅𝐿,𝑝) 
 
where: 
 
 
𝐴𝐸𝑅𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝑝 
is the all-electric range for an individual vehicle for the 
considered period p, km; 
 
𝐴𝐸𝑅𝐿,𝑝 
is the all-electric range for vehicle L for the considered 
period p, km; 
 
𝐴𝐸𝑅𝐻,𝑝 
is the all-electric range for vehicle H for the considered 
period p, km; 
 
𝐾𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝑝 
is the interpolation coefficient for the considered individual 
vehicle for period p; 
 
𝑝 
is the index of the individual period within the applicable test 
cycle. 



--- PAGE 433 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 433 of 762 
 
 
The considered period shall be the applicable WLTP test cycle  
If the criterion defined in this paragraph is not fulfilled, the AER determined 
for vehicle H is applicable to all vehicles within the interpolation family. 
4.5.7.2. 
Individual pure electric range for PEVs 
The pure electric range for an individual vehicle shall be calculated using 
the following equation: 
 
𝑃𝐸𝑅𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝑝= 𝑃𝐸𝑅𝐿,𝑝+ 𝐾𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝑝× (𝑃𝐸𝑅𝐻,𝑝−𝑃𝐸𝑅𝐿,𝑝) 
 
where: 
 
 
𝑃𝐸𝑅𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝑝 
is the pure electric range for an individual vehicle for the 
considered period p, km; 
 
𝑃𝐸𝑅𝐿,𝑝 
is the pure electric range for vehicle L for the considered 
period p, km; 
 
𝑃𝐸𝑅𝐻,𝑝 
is the pure electric range for vehicle H for the considered 
period p, km; 
 
𝐾𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝑝 
is the interpolation coefficient for the considered 
individual vehicle for period p; 
 
𝑝 
is the index of the individual period within the applicable 
test cycle. 
 
For the 4-phase WLTP only; 
The considered periods shall be the low phase, medium phase, high phase, 
and the applicable WLTP test cycle.  
4.5.7.3. 
Individual equivalent all-electric range for OVC-HEVs and OVC-FCHVs 
The equivalent all-electric range for an individual vehicle shall be 
calculated using the following equation: 
𝐸𝐴𝐸𝑅𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝑝= 𝐸𝐴𝐸𝑅𝐿,𝑝+ 𝐾𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝑝× (𝐸𝐴𝐸𝑅𝐻,𝑝−𝐸𝐴𝐸𝑅𝐿,𝑝) 
 
where: 
 
𝐸𝐴𝐸𝑅𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝑝 is the equivalent all-electric range for an individual vehicle for 
the considered period p, km; 
 
𝐸𝐴𝐸𝑅𝐿,𝑝 is the equivalent all-electric range for vehicle L for the 
considered period p, km; 
 
𝐸𝐴𝐸𝑅𝐻,𝑝 is the equivalent all-electric range for vehicle H for the 
considered period p, km; 



--- PAGE 434 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 434 of 762 
 
 
𝐾𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝑝 
is the interpolation coefficient for the considered individual 
vehicle for period p; 
 
𝑝 
is the index of the individual period within the applicable test 
cycle. 
 
The considered periods shall be the low phase, medium phase, high phase, 
and the applicable WLTP test cycle.  
4.5.8. 
Adjustment of values 
The individual EAER value determined in accordance with paragraph 
4.5.7.3. of this annex may be decreased by the manufacturer. In such cases: 
The EAER phase values shall be decreased by the ratio of the decreased 
EAER value divided by the calculated EAER value. This shall not 
compensate for technical elements that would effectively require a vehicle to 
be excluded from the interpolation family. 
4.6. 
Stepwise procedure for calculating the final test results of OVC-HEVs 
In addition to the stepwise procedure for calculating the final charge-
sustaining test results for gaseous emission compounds according to 
paragraph 4.1.1.1. of this annex and for fuel consumption and fuel efficiency 
according to paragraph 4.2.1.1. of this annex, paragraphs 4.6.1. and 4.6.2. of 
this annex describe the stepwise calculation of the final charge-depleting as 
well as the final charge-sustaining and charge-depleting weighted test results.  
4.6.1. 
Stepwise procedure for calculating the final test results of the charge-
depleting Type I test for OVC-HEVs 
The results shall be calculated in the order described in Table A8/8. All 
applicable results in the column "Output" shall be recorded. The column 
"Process" describes the paragraphs to be used for calculation or contains 
additional calculations. 
For the purpose of Table A8/8, the following nomenclature within the 
equations and results is used: 
 
c 
complete applicable test cycle; 
 
p 
every applicable cycle phase; 
 
i 
applicable criteria emission component; 
 
CS 
charge-sustaining; 
 
CO2 
CO2 mass emission. 
  
 
 



--- PAGE 435 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 435 of 762 
 
Table A8/8 
Calculation of final charge-depleting values 
Step no. 
Source 
Input 
Process 
Output 
1 
 
Annex B8 
Charge-depleting 
test results 
Results measured according 
to Appendix 3 to this annex, 
pre-calculated according to 
paragraph 4.3. of this annex. 
Recharged electric energy 
according to 
paragraph 3.2.4.6. of this 
annex.  
Cycle energy according to 
paragraph 5. of Annex B7. 
CO2 mass emission 
according to paragraph 3.2.1. 
of Annex B7.  
Mass of gaseous emission 
compound i according to 
paragraph 4.1.3.1.. of 
Annex B8. 
All-electric range determined 
according to 
paragraph 4.4.1.1. of this 
annex. 
CO2 mass emission KCO2 
correction coefficient might 
be necessary according to 
Appendix 2 to this annex.  
Output is available for each 
test. 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
applied, the output (except of 
KCO2) is available for vehicle 
H, L and, if applicable, M.  
ΔEREESS,j, Wh; 
dj, km; 
 
EAC, Wh; 
 
 
Ecycle, Ws; 
 
MCO2,CD,j, 
g/km; 
 
Mi,CD,j, g/km; 
 
AER, km; 
 
 
KCO2, 
(g/km)/(Wh/k
m). 
Annex B8 
 
Particle number emissions (if 
applicable) according to 
paragraph 4. of Annex B7. 
PNCD,j, 
particles per 
kilometer; 



--- PAGE 436 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 436 of 762 
 
Table A8/8 
Calculation of final charge-depleting values 
Step no. 
Source 
Input 
Process 
Output 
Particulate matter emissions 
according to paragraph 4. of 
Annex B7.  
PMCD,c, 
mg/km; 
2 
Output 
step 1 
ΔEREESS,j, Wh; 
Ecycle, Ws. 
Calculation of relative 
electric energy change for 
each cycle according to 
paragraph 3.2.4.5.2. of this 
annex.  
Output is available for each 
test and each applicable 
WLTP test cycle. 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
applied, the output is 
available for vehicle H, L 
and, if applicable, M. 
REECi. 
 
3 
Output 
step 2 
REECi. 
 
Determination of the 
transition and confirmation 
cycle according to 
paragraph 3.2.4.4. of this 
annex.  
In the case that more than 
one charge-depleting test is 
available for one vehicle, for 
the purpose of averaging, 
each test shall have the same 
transition cycle number nveh. 
Determination of the charge-
depleting cycle range 
according to paragraph 4.4.3. 
of this annex. 
Output is available for each 
test. 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
applied, the output is 
nveh; 
 
 
RCDC; km. 



--- PAGE 437 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 437 of 762 
 
Table A8/8 
Calculation of final charge-depleting values 
Step no. 
Source 
Input 
Process 
Output 
available for vehicle H, L 
and, if applicable, M. 
4 
Output 
step 3 
nveh; 
 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is used, 
the transition cycle shall be 
determined for vehicle H, L 
and, if applicable, M. 
Check whether the 
interpolation criterion 
according to 
paragraph 6.3.2.2. (d) of this 
Regulation is fulfilled. 
nveh,L; 
nveh,H; 
 
if applicable  
nveh,M. 
5 
Output 
step 1 
Mi,CD,j, g/km; 
PMCD,c, mg/km; 
PNCD,j, particles 
per kilometer. 
 
Calculation of combined 
values for emissions for nveh 
cycles; in the case of 
interpolation for nveh,L cycles 
for each vehicle. 
Output is available for each 
test. 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
applied, the output is 
available for vehicle H, L 
and, if applicable, M. 
Mi,CD,c, g/km; 
PMCD,c, 
mg/km; 
PNCD,c, 
particles per 
kilometer. 
 
6 
Output 
step 5 
Mi,CD,c, g/km; 
PMCD,c, mg/km; 
PNCD,c, particles 
per kilometer. 
 
Emission averaging of tests 
for each applicable WLTP 
test cycle within the charge-
depleting Type I test and 
check with the limits 
according to Table A6/2 of 
Annex B6. 
Mi,CD,c,ave, 
g/km; 
PMCD,c,ave, 
mg/km; 
PNCD,c,ave, 
particles per 
kilometer. 
7 
Reserved 
 
 
 
8 
Output step 
1 
 
dj, km; 
Phase-specific and cycle-
specific UF calculation. 
 
UFphase,j; 
 UFcycle,c. 



--- PAGE 438 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 438 of 762 
 
Table A8/8 
Calculation of final charge-depleting values 
Step no. 
Source 
Input 
Process 
Output 
Output step 
3 
 
nveh; 
Output is available for each 
test. 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
applied, the output is 
available for vehicle H, L 
and, if applicable, M. 
Output step 
4 
 
nveh,L; 
9 
Output step 
1 
ΔEREESS,j, Wh; 
dj, km; 
EAC, Wh; 
Calculation of the electric 
energy consumption based on 
the recharged energy 
according. to 
paragraphs 4.3.1. of this 
annex. 
In the case of interpolation, 
nveh,L cycles shall be used. 
Therefore, due to the 
required correction of the 
CO2 mass emission, the 
electric energy consumption 
of the confirmation cycle and 
its phases shall be set to zero. 
Output is available for each 
test. 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
applied, the output is 
available for vehicle H, L 
and, if applicable, M. 
ECAC,CD, 
Wh/km; 
Output step 
3 
nveh; 
 
Output step 
4 
nveh,L; 
 
Output step 
8 
UFphase,j; 
 
10 
Output step 
1 
 
MCO2,CD,j, g/km; 
KCO2, 
(g/km)/(Wh/km); 
ΔEREESS,j, Wh; 
dj, km; 
nveh; 
Calculation of the charge-
depleting CO2 mass emission 
according to paragraph 4.1.2. 
of this annex.  
In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
applied, nveh,L cycles shall be 
used. With reference to 
paragraph 4.1.2. of this 
MCO2,CD, 
g/km; 



--- PAGE 439 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 439 of 762 
 
Table A8/8 
Calculation of final charge-depleting values 
Step no. 
Source 
Input 
Process 
Output 
nveh,L; 
UFphase,j. 
annex, the confirmation cycle 
shall be corrected according 
to Appendix 2 to this annex. 
Output is available for each 
test. 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
applied, the output is 
available for vehicle H, L 
and, if applicable, M. 
Output step 
3 
dj, km; 
Output step 
4 
nveh; 
 
Output step 
8 
nveh,L; 
UFphase,j. 
11 
Output step 
1 
 
MCO2,CD,j, g/km; 
Mi,CD,j, g/km; 
KCO2, 
(g/km)/(Wh/km). 
nveh; 
nveh,L; 
UFphase,j; 
Calculation of the charge-
depleting fuel consumption 
according to paragraph 4.2.2. 
of this annex. 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
applied, nveh,L cycles shall be 
used. With reference to 
paragraph 4.1.2. of this 
annex, MCO2,CD,j of the 
confirmation cycle shall be 
corrected according to 
Appendix 2 to this annex.  
For results, the phase-
specific fuel consumption 
FCCD,j shall be calculated 
using the corrected CO2 mass 
emission according to 
paragraph 6. of Annex B7. 
Output is available for each 
test. 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
applied, the output is 
available for vehicle H, L 
and, if applicable, M. 
FCCD,j, 
l/100 km; 
FCCD, 
l/100 km. 
 
 
Output step 
3 
nveh; 
 
Output step 
4 
nveh,L; 
 
Output step 
8 
UFphase,j; 
 



--- PAGE 440 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 440 of 762 
 
Table A8/8 
Calculation of final charge-depleting values 
Step no. 
Source 
Input 
Process 
Output 
12 
Output step 
1 
ΔEREESS,j, Wh; 
dj, km; 
If applicable, calculation of 
the electric energy 
consumption from the first 
applicable WLTP test cycle 
as described in Appendix 8, 
Paragraph 2.1. to this annex. 
Output is available for each 
test. 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
applied, the output is 
available for vehicle H, L 
and, if applicable, M. 
ECDC,CD,first, 
Wh/km 
13 
Output step 
9 
ECAC,CD, 
Wh/km; 
Averaging of tests for each 
vehicle. 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
applied, the output is 
available for each vehicle H, 
L and, if applicable, M. 
If applicable: 
ECDC,CD,first,ave
, Wh/km 
 
For results, 
ECAC,CD,ave, 
Wh/km; 
MCO2,CD,ave, 
g/km; 
FCCD,ave, 
l/100 km;  
Output step 
10 
MCO2,CD, g/km; 
Output step 
11 
FCCD, l/100 km; 
 
Output step 
12 
If applicable: 
ECDC,CD,first, 
Wh/km. 
14 
Output step 
13 
ECAC,CD,ave, 
Wh/km; 
MCO2,CD,ave, 
g/km. 
 
Declaration of charge-
depleting electric energy 
consumption, and CO2 mass 
emission for each vehicle. 
Calculation of ECAC,weighted 
according to paragraph 4.3.2. 
of this annex. 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
applied, the output is 
For results,  
ECAC,CD,declared
, Wh/km; 
ECAC,weighted, 
Wh/km; 
MCO2,CD,declared
, g/km. 
 



--- PAGE 441 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 441 of 762 
 
Table A8/8 
Calculation of final charge-depleting values 
Step no. 
Source 
Input 
Process 
Output 
available for each vehicle H, 
L and, if applicable, M. 
 
15 
Output step 
13 
 
ECAC,CD,ave, 
Wh/km; 
If applicable: 
ECDC,CD,first,ave, 
Wh/km; 
If applicable: 
Adjustment of electric energy 
consumption for the purpose 
of COP as decribed in 
Appendix 8, paragraph 2.1. 
to this annex. 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
applied, the output is 
available for each vehicle H, 
L and, if applicable, M.  
ECDC,CD,COP, 
Wh/km; 
Output step 
14 
 
ECAC,CD,declared, 
Wh/km; 
 
16 
 
Interpolat
ion 
family 
result. 
 
If the 
interpola-
tion 
method is 
not 
applied, 
step No. 
17 is not 
required 
and the 
output of 
this step 
is the 
final 
result. 
Output step 
15 
 
If applicable: 
ECDC,CD,COP, 
Wh/km; 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
applied, intermediate 
rounding shall be performed 
according to paragraph 6.1.8. 
of this Regulation: 
MCO2,CD shall be rounded to 
the second place of decimal. 
ECAC,CD,final and 
ECAC,weighted,final shall be 
rounded to the first place of 
decimal. 
If applicable: 
ECDC,CD,COP shall be rounded 
to the first place of decimal. 
FCCD shall be rounded to the 
third place of decimal. 
Output is available for 
vehicles H and for vehicle L 
and, if applicable, for vehicle 
M. 
In case that the interpolation 
method is not applied, final 
If applicable: 
ECDC,CD,COP,fin
al, Wh/km; 
For results, 
ECAC,CD,final, 
Wh/km; 
MCO2,CD,final, 
g/km; 
ECAC,weighted,fin
al, Wh/km; 
FCCD,final, 
l/100 km; 
 
 
Output step 
14 
 
ECAC,CD,declared, 
Wh/km; 
ECAC,weighted, 
Wh/km;  
Output step 
13 
 
MCO2,CD,declared, 
g/km; 
FCCD,ave, 
l/100 km; 
 



--- PAGE 442 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 442 of 762 
 
Table A8/8 
Calculation of final charge-depleting values 
Step no. 
Source 
Input 
Process 
Output 
rounding shall be applied 
according to paragraph 6.1.8. 
of this Regulation: 
ECAC,CD , ECAC,weighted and 
MCO2,CD shall be rounded to 
the nearest whole number.  
If applicable: 
ECDC,CD,COP shall be rounded 
to the nearest whole number.  
FCCD shall be rounded to the 
first place of decimal. 
17 
 
Result of 
an 
individual 
vehicle.  
Final test 
result. 
Output step 
16 
If applicable: 
ECDC,CD,COP,final, 
Wh/km; 
ECAC,CD,final, 
Wh/km; 
MCO2,CD,final, 
g/km; 
ECAC,weighted,final, 
Wh/km; 
FCCD,final, 
l/100 km;  
Interpolation of individual 
values based on input from 
vehicles H and L and, if 
applicable, vehicle M. 
Final rounding of individual 
vehicle values shall be 
performed according to 
paragraph 6.1.8. of this 
Regulation. 
ECAC,CD , ECAC,weighted and 
MCO2,CD shall be rounded to 
the nearest whole number.  
If applicable: 
ECDC,CD,COP shall be rounded 
to the nearest whole number.  
FCCD shall be rounded to the 
first place of decimal. 
Output is available for each 
individual vehicle. 
If applicable: 
ECDC,CD,COP,ind
, Wh/km; 
For results , 
ECAC,CD,ind, 
Wh/km; 
MCO2,CD,ind, 
g/km; 
ECAC,weighted,ind
, Wh/km; 
FCCD,ind, 
l/100 km; 
 
 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 443 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 443 of 762 
 
4.6.2. 
Stepwise procedure for calculating the final charge-sustaining and charge-
depleting weighted test results of the Type I test for OVC-HEVs 
The results shall be calculated in the order described in Table A8/9. All 
applicable results in the column "Output" shall be recorded. The column 
"Process" describes the paragraphs to be used for calculation or contains 
additional calculations. 
For the purpose of this table, the following nomenclature within the equations 
and results is used: 
 
𝑐 
considered period is the complete applicable test cycle; 
 
𝑝 
considered period is the applicable cycle phase; 
 
𝑖 
applicable criteria emission component (except for CO2); 
 
j 
index for the considered period; 
 
CS 
charge-sustaining; 
 
CD 
charge-depleting; 
 
CO2 
CO2 mass emission; 
 
REESS Rechargeable Electric Energy Storage System. 
 
 
Table A8/9 
Calculation of final charge-depleting and charge-sustaining weighted values 
Step no. 
Source 
Input 
Process 
Output 
1 
Output 
step 1, 
Table A8/8 
 
Mi,CD,j, g/km; 
PNCD,j, particles 
per kilometer; 
PMCD,c, mg/km; 
MCO2,CD,j, g/km; 
ΔEREESS,j, Wh; 
dj, km; 
AER, km; 
EAC, Wh; 
 
Input from CD and CS post 
processing. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MCO2,CD,j, 
g/km; 
AER, km; 
EAC, Wh; 
MCO2,CS,declare
d, g/km; 
MCO2,CD,declar
ed, g/km; 
MCO2,CD,ave, 
g/km; 
 



--- PAGE 444 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 444 of 762 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Output in the case of CD is 
available for each CD test. 
Output in the case of CS is 
available once due to CS test 
averaged values. 
 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
applied, the output (except of 
KCO2) is available for vehicle 
H, L and, if applicable, M. 
 
 
CO2 mass emission correction 
coefficient KCO2 might be 
For results, 
Mi,CD,j, 
g/km; 
PNCD,j, 
particles per 
kilometer; 
PMCD,c, 
mg/km; 
ΔEREESS,j, 
Wh; 
dj, km; 
nveh; 
RCDC, km; 
nveh,L; 
nveh,H; 
UFphase,j; 
UFcycle,c; 
Mi,CS,c,6, 
g/km; 
MCO2,CS,p 
 
 
 
 
 
KCO2, 
(g/km)/(Wh/
km). 
 
Output 
step 3, 
Table A8/8 
 
nveh; 
RCDC, km; 
 
Output 
step 4, 
Table A8/8 
 
nveh,L; 
nveh,H; 
 
Output 
step 8, 
Table A8/8 
 
UFphase,j; 
UFcycle,c; 
 
Output 
step 6, 
Table A8/5 
 
Mi,CS,c,6, g/km; 
 
Output 
step 7, 
Table A8/5 
MCO2,CS,declared, 
g/km; MCO2,CS,p 
 
Output step 
14, Table 
A8/8 
MCO2,CD,declared, 
g/km; 
 
Output step 
13, Table 
A8/8 
MCO2,CD,ave, 
g/km; 
 
 
KCO2, 
(g/km)/(Wh/km). 
 



--- PAGE 445 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 445 of 762 
 
 
 
necessary according to 
Appendix 2 to this annex. 
2 
Output 
step 1  
 
Mi,CD,j, g/km; 
PNCD,j, particles 
per kilometer; 
PMCD,c, mg/km; 
nveh; 
nveh,L; 
UFphase,j; 
UFcycle,c; 
Mi,CS,c,6, g/km; 
Calculation of weighted 
emission (except MCO2,weighted) 
compounds according to 
paragraphs 4.1.3.1. to 4.1.3.3. 
inclusive of this annex. 
Remark: 
Mi,CS,c,6 includes PNCS,c and 
PMCS,c. 
Output is available for each 
CD test. 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
applied, the output is available 
for each vehicle L, H and, if 
applicable, M. 
Mi,weighted, 
g/km; 
PNweighted, 
particles per 
kilometer; 
PMweighted, 
mg/km; 
 
3 
Output 
step 1  
 
MCO2,CD,j, g/km; 
ΔEREESS,j, Wh; 
dj, km; 
nveh; 
RCDC, km 
MCO2,CS,declared, 
g/km; 
MCO2,CS,p 
 
 
Calculation of equivalent all-
electric range according to 
paragraphs 4.4.4.1. and 
4.4.4.2. of this annex, and 
actual charge-depleting range 
according to paragraph 4.4.5. 
of this annex. 
Output is available for each 
CD test. 
RCDA shall be rounded 
according to paragraph 6.1.8. 
of this Regulation to the 
nearest whole number. 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
applied, the output is available 
for each vehicle L, H and, if 
applicable, M. 
EAER, km; 
EAERp, km; 
RCDA, km. 



--- PAGE 446 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 446 of 762 
 
4 
Output 
step 1 
AER, km; 
 
Output is available for each 
CD test. 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
applied, check the availability 
of AER interpolation between 
vehicle H, L and, if applicable, 
M according to 
paragraph 4.5.7.1. of this 
annex.  
If the interpolation method is 
used, each test shall fulfil the 
requirement. 
AER-
interpolation 
availability. 
Output step 3 
 
RCDA, km. 



--- PAGE 447 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 447 of 762 
 
5 
Interpolatio
n family 
result. 
If the 
interpolatio
n method is 
not 
applied, 
step No. 9 
is not 
required 
and the 
output of 
this step is 
the final 
result. 
Output 
step 1 
AER, km. 
 
Averaging AER and AER 
declaration. 
The declared AER shall be 
rounded according to 
paragraph 6.1.8. of this 
Regulation to the number of 
decimal places specified in 
Table A6/1 of Annex B6. 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
applied and the AER 
interpolation availability 
criterion is fulfilled, AER shall 
be rounded according to 
paragraph 6.1.8. of this 
Regulation to the first place of 
decimal. 
The output is available for 
each vehicles H and L and, if 
applicable, for vehicle M. 
If the case that the 
interpolation method is 
applied but the criterion is not 
fulfilled, AER of vehicle H 
shall be applied for the whole 
interpolation family and shall 
be rounded according to 
paragraph 6.1.8. of this 
Regulation to the nearest 
whole number. 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is not 
applied, AER shall be rounded 
according to paragraph 6.1.8. 
of this Regulation to the 
nearest whole number. 
AERave, km; 
For results, 
AERdec, km. 



--- PAGE 448 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 448 of 762 
 
6 
Output 
step 1 
Mi,CD,j, g/km; 
MCO2,CD,j, g/km; 
nveh; 
nveh,L; 
UFphase,j; 
Mi,CS,c,6, g/km; 
MCO2,CS,declared, 
g/km. 
MCO2,CD,declared, 
g/km; 
MCO2,CD,ave, 
g/km; 
 
Calculation of weighted CO2 
mass emission and fuel 
consumption according to 
paragraphs 4.1.3.1. and 4.2.3. 
of this annex. 
Output is available for each 
CD test. 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
applied, nveh,L cycles shall be 
used. With reference to 
paragraph 4.1.2. of this annex, 
MCO2,CD,j of the confirmation 
cycle shall be corrected 
according to Appendix 2 to 
this annex. 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
applied, the output is available 
for each vehicle H, vehicle L 
and, if applicable, vehicle M. 
MCO2,weighted, 
g/km; 
FCweighted, 
l/100 km; 
 
7 
 
 
Output 
step 1 
 
EAC, Wh; 
 
Calculation of the electric 
energy consumption based in 
EAER according to 
paragraphs 4.3.3.1. and 
4.3.3.2. of this annex.  
Output is available for each 
CD test. 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
applied, the output is available 
for each vehicle H, vehicle L 
and, if applicable, vehicle M. 
EC, Wh/km; 
ECp, 
Wh/km; 
Output 
step 3 
 
EAER, km; 
EAERp, km; 
 
8 
Interpolatio
n family 
result. 
Output 
step 6 
 
MCO2,weighted, 
g/km; 
FCweighted, 
l/100 km; 
 
Averaging and intermediate 
rounding according to 
paragraph 6.1.8. of this 
Regulation. 
 
For results, 
MCO2,weighted,f
inal, g/km; 
FCweighted,final
, l/100 km; 



--- PAGE 449 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 449 of 762 
 
If the 
interpolatio
n method is 
not 
applied, 
step No. 9 
is not 
required 
and the 
output of 
this step is 
the final 
result. 
 
Output 
step 7 
 
EC, Wh/km; 
ECp, Wh/km; 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
applied, intermediate rounding 
shall be performed according 
to paragraph 6.1.8. of this 
Regulation. 
EAER and EAERp shall be 
rounded to the first place of 
decimal. 
MCO2,weighted shall be rounded 
to the second place of decimal. 
FCweighted shall be rounded to 
the third place of decimal. 
EC and ECp shall be rounded 
to the first place of decimal. 
The output is available for 
each vehicle H, vehicle L and, 
if applicable, vehicle M. 
In case that the interpolation 
method is not applied, final 
rounding of the test results 
shall be applied according to 
paragraph 6.1.8. of this 
Regulation. 
EAER and EAERp shall be 
rounded to the nearest whole 
number. 
MCO2,weighted shall be rounded 
to the nearest whole number. 
FCweighted shall be rounded to 
the first place of decimal. 
EC and ECp shall be rounded 
to the nearest whole number. 
ECfinal, 
Wh/km; 
ECp,final, 
Wh/km; 
EAERfinal, 
km; 
EAERp,final, 
km. 
Output 
step 3 
 
EAER, km; 
EAERp, km; 
Output step 
5 
 
AERdec, km; 
AERave, km.. 



--- PAGE 450 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 450 of 762 
 
9  
Result of 
an 
individual 
vehicle. 
Final test 
result. 
Output step 
5 
AERdec, km; 
Interpolation of individual 
values based on input from 
vehicle low, medium and high 
according to paragraph 4.5. of 
this annex, and final rounding 
according to paragraph 6.1.8. 
of this Regulation. 
AERind, EAERind and 
EAERp,ind shall be rounded to 
the nearest whole number. 
MCO2,weighted,ind shall be 
rounded to the nearest whole 
number. 
ECweighted,ind shall be rounded 
to the first place of decimal. 
FCweighted,ind shall be rounded 
to the first place of decimal. 
ECind and ECp,ind shall be 
rounded to the nearest whole 
number. 
Output available for each 
individual vehicles. 
RCDC shall be rounded 
according to paragraph 6.1.8. 
of this Regulation to the 
nearest whole number. 
 
ECind, 
Wh/km; 
ECp,ind, 
Wh/km; 
EAERind, 
km; 
For results, 
AERind, km; 
MCO2,weighted,i
nd, g/km; 
FCweighted,ind, 
l/100 km; 
EAERp,ind, 
km. 
RCDC,final 
Output step 
8 
MCO2,weighted,final, 
g/km; 
FCweighted,final, 
l/100 km; 
ECfinal, Wh/km; 
ECp,final, Wh/km; 
EAERfinal, km; 
EAERp,final, km; 
 
Output 
step 4 
 
AER-
interpolation 
availability 
 
Output step 
1 
 
RCDC 
 
4.6.3. 
Stepwise procedure for calculating the final test results of OVC-FCHVs 
This annex describes the stepwise calculation of the final charge-depleting as 
well as the final charge-sustaining and charge-depleting weighted test results.  
4.6.3.1. 
Stepwise procedure for calculating the final test results of the charge-depleting 
Type I test for OVC-FCHVs 
The results shall be calculated in the order described in Table A8/9a. All 
applicable results in the column "Output" shall be recorded. The column 
"Process" describes the paragraphs to be used for calculation or contains 
additional calculations. 
For the purpose of Table A8/8, the following nomenclature within the 
equations and results is used: 



--- PAGE 451 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 451 of 762 
 
 
c 
complete applicable test cycle; 
 
p 
every applicable cycle phase; 
 
CS 
charge-sustaining; 
 
 
 A8/9a 
Calculation of final charge-depleting values for OVC-FCHVs 
Step no. 
Source 
Input 
Process 
Output 
1 
Annex 8 
Charge-depleting 
test results 
Results measured according 
to Appendix 3 to this annex, 
pre-calculated according to 
paragraph 4.3. of this annex. 
Recharged electric energy 
according 
to 
paragraph 3.2.4.6. 
of 
this 
annex.  
Cycle energy according to 
paragraph 5. of Annex B7. 
CO2 mass emission according 
to 
paragraph 3.2.1. 
of 
Annex B7.  
All-electric range determined 
according 
to 
paragraph 4.4.1.1. 
of 
this 
annex. 
H2 
fuel 
consumption 
Kfuel,FCHV 
correction 
coefficient might be necessary 
according to Appendix 2 to 
this annex.  
Output is available for each 
test. 
In 
the 
case 
that 
the 
interpolation 
method 
is 
applied, the output (except of 
Kfuel,FCHV) is available for 
vehicle 
H, 
L 
and, 
if 
applicable, M.  
ΔEREESS,j, 
Wh; 
dj, km; 
EAC, Wh; 
 
 
Ecycle, Ws; 
 
FCCD,j, 
kg/100 km;  
 
AER, km; 
 
Kfuel,FCHV, 
(kg/100km
)/ 
(Wh/100k
m). 



--- PAGE 452 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 452 of 762 
 
2 
Output 
step 1 
ΔEREESS,j, Wh; 
Ecycle, Ws. 
Calculation of relative electric 
energy change for each cycle 
according 
to 
paragraph 3.2.4.5.2. of this 
annex.  
Output is available for each 
test 
and 
each 
applicable 
WLTP test cycle. 
In 
the 
case 
that 
the 
interpolation 
method 
is 
applied, the output is available 
for vehicle H, L and, if 
applicable, M. 
REECi. 
 
3 
Output 
step 2 
REECi. 
 
Determination 
of 
the 
transition and confirmation 
cycle 
according 
to 
paragraph 3.2.4.4. 
of 
this 
annex.  
In the case that more than one 
charge-depleting 
test 
is 
available for one vehicle, for 
the purpose of averaging, each 
test shall have the same 
transition cycle number nveh. 
Determination of the charge-
depleting 
cycle 
range 
according to paragraph 4.4.3. 
of this annex. 
Output is available for each 
test. 
In 
the 
case 
that 
the 
interpolation 
method 
is 
applied, the output is available 
for vehicle H, L and, if 
applicable, M. 
nveh; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RCDC; km. 
4 
Output 
step 3 
nveh; 
 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is used, 
the transition cycle shall be 
determined for vehicle H, L 
and, if applicable, M. 
Check whether the 
interpolation criterion 
according to 
nveh,L; 
nveh,H; 
 
if 
applicable  



--- PAGE 453 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 453 of 762 
 
paragraph 6.3.2.2. of this  
regulation is fulfilled. 
nveh,M. 
5 
Reserved 
6 
Output step 
1 
dj, km; 
Phase-specific 
and 
cycle-
specific UF calculation. 
Output is available for each 
test. 
 
In 
the 
case 
that 
the 
interpolation 
method 
is 
applied, the output is available 
for vehicle H, L and, if 
applicable, M. 
UFphase,j; 
UFcycle,c. 
Output step 
3 
nveh; 
 
Output step 
4 
 
nveh,L; 
 
7 
Output step 
1 
ΔEREESS,j, Wh; 
dj, km; 
EAC, Wh; 
 
Calculation of the electric 
energy consumption based on 
the 
recharged 
energy 
according. 
to 
paragraphs 4.3.1. and 4.3.2. of 
this annex. 
In the case of interpolation, 
nveh,L cycles shall be used. 
Therefore, due to the required 
correction of the CO2 mass 
emission, the electric energy 
consumption 
of 
the 
confirmation cycle and its 
phases shall be set to zero. 
 
Output is available for each 
test. 
In 
the 
case 
that 
the 
interpolation 
method 
is 
applied, the output is available 
for vehicle H, L and, if 
applicable, M. 
ECAC,weighte
d, Wh/km; 
ECAC,CD, 
Wh/km; 
Output step 
3 
 
nveh; 
 
Output step 
4 
 
nveh,L; 
 
Output step 
6 
 
UFphase,j; 
 
8 
Output step 
1 
 
FCCD,j, l/100 km  
Kfuel,FCHV, 
(kg/100km)/(Wh/
100km); 
 
Calculation of the charge-
depleting fuel consumption 
according to paragraph 4.2.2. 
of this annex.  
In 
the 
case 
that 
the 
interpolation 
method 
is 
FCCD, 
kg/100km; 



--- PAGE 454 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 454 of 762 
 
Output step 
3 
 
ΔEREESS,j, Wh; 
 
applied, nveh,L cycles shall be 
used. 
With 
reference 
to 
paragraph 4.1.2. of this annex, 
the confirmation cycle shall 
be corrected according to 
Appendix 2 to this annex. 
Output is available for each 
test. 
In 
the 
case 
that 
the 
interpolation 
method 
is 
applied, the output is available 
for vehicle H, L and, if 
applicable, M. 
Output step 
4 
 
dj, km; 
 
Output step 
6 
nveh; 
nveh,L; 
UFphase,j. 
 
9 
Reserved 
10 
Output step 
7 
 
Output step 
8 
 
 
ECAC,weighted, 
Wh/km; 
ECAC,CD, Wh/km; 
FCCD, 
kg/100 km. 
 
Averaging of tests for each 
vehicle. 
 
In 
the 
case 
that 
the 
interpolation 
method 
is 
applied, the output is available 
for each vehicle H, L and, if 
applicable, M. 
ECAC,weighte
d,ave, 
Wh/km; 
ECAC,CD,ave, 
Wh/km; 
FCCD,ave, 
kg/100 km. 
 
11 
Output step 
10 
ECAC,CD,ave, 
Wh/km; 
FCCD,ave, 
kg/100 km; 
 
Declaration 
of 
charge-
depleting 
electric 
energy 
consumption 
and 
fuel 
consumption for each vehicle. 
In 
the 
case 
that 
the 
interpolation 
method 
is 
applied, the output is available 
for each vehicle H, L and, if 
applicable, M. 
ECAC,CD,decl
ared, 
Wh/km; 
FCCD,declared
, 
kg/100 km; 
 
12 
Reserved 
13 
 
Output step 
11 
 
ECAC,CD,declared, 
Wh/km; 
 
In 
the 
case 
that 
the 
interpolation 
method 
is 
applied, 
intermediate 
rounding shall be performed 
ECAC,CD,fina
l, Wh/km; 



--- PAGE 455 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 455 of 762 
 
Interpolation 
family 
result. 
 
If 
the 
interpola-
tion method 
is 
not 
applied, step 
No. 14 is not 
required and 
the output of 
this step is 
the 
final 
result. 
Output step 
10 
 
ECAC,weighted,ave, 
Wh/km; 
FCCD,ave, 
kg/100 km; 
 
according to paragraph 6.1.8. 
of this  regulation 
MCO2,CD shall be rounded to 
the second place of decimal. 
ECAC,CD and ECAC,weighted shall 
be rounded to the first place of 
decimal. 
Output 
is 
available 
for 
vehicles H and for vehicle L 
and, if applicable, for vehicle 
M. 
In case that the interpolation 
method is not applied, final 
rounding shall be applied 
according to paragraph 6.1.8. 
of this  regulation 
ECAC,CD , ECAC,weighted and 
MCO2,CD shall be rounded to 
the nearest whole number. 
ECAC,weighte
d,final, 
Wh/km; 
FCCD,final, 
l/100 km; 
14 
 
Result of an 
individual 
vehicle.  
Final 
test 
result. 
Output step 
13 
ECAC,CD,final, 
Wh/km; 
ECAC,weighted,final, 
Wh/km; 
FCCD,final, 
kg/100 km; 
Interpolation of individual 
values based on input from 
vehicles H and L and, if 
applicable, vehicle M. 
Final rounding of individual 
vehicle 
values 
shall 
be 
performed 
according 
to 
paragraph 6.1.8. 
of 
this  
regulation 
ECAC,CD , ECAC,weighted shall be 
rounded to the nearest whole 
number.  
Output is available for each 
individual vehicle. 
ECAC,CD,ind, 
Wh/km; 
ECAC,weighte
d,ind, 
Wh/km; 
FCCD,ind, 
kg/100 km; 
 



--- PAGE 456 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 456 of 762 
 
4.6.3.2. 
Stepwise procedure for calculating the final charge-sustaining and charge-
depleting weighted test results of the Type I test for OVC-FCHVs 
The results shall be calculated in the order described in Table A8/9a All 
applicable results in the column "Output" shall be recorded. The column 
"Process" describes the paragraphs to be used for calculation or contains 
additional calculations. 
For the purpose of this table, the following nomenclature within the equations 
and results is used: 
4.6.3.2 
Stepwise procedure for calculating the final charge-sustaining and charge-
depleting weighted test results of the Type I test for OVC-FCHVs 
 
c 
considered period is the complete applicable test cycle; 
 
p 
every applicable cycle phase; 
 
j 
index for the considered period; 
 
CS 
charge-sustaining; 
 
CD 
charge-depleting; 
 
REESS Rechargeable Electric Energy Storage System. 
Table A8/9b 
Calculation of final charge-depleting and charge-sustaining weighted values for 
OVC-FCHVs 
Step no. 
Source 
Input 
Process 
Output 
1 
Output step 
1, 
Table 
A8/9a 
 
FCCD,j, kg/100 
km 
ΔEREESS,j, Wh; 
dj, km; 
AER, km; 
EAC, Wh; 
 
Input from CD and CS 
postprocessing. 
Output in the case of CD 
is available for each CD 
test. Output in the case of 
CS is available once due 
to 
CS 
test 
averaged 
values. 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
applied, 
the 
output 
(except of Kfuel,FCHV) is 
available for vehicle H, L 
and, if applicable, M. 
FCCD,j, kg/100 km;  
ΔEREESS,j, Wh; 
dj, km; 
AER, km; 
EAC, Wh; 
nveh; 
RCDC, km; 
nveh,L; 
nveh,H; 
 
 
Output step 
3, 
Table 
A8/9a 
nveh; 
RCDC, km; 



--- PAGE 457 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 457 of 762 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
H2 correction coefficient 
Kfuel,FCHV 
might 
be 
necessary according to 
Appendix 2 to this annex. 
 
 
 
UFphase,j; 
UFcycle,c; 
 
FCCS,declared, 
kg/100km; 
FCCS,p, kg/100km; 
FCCD,declared, 
kg/100km; 
FCCD,ave, kg/100km; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Kfuel,FCHV, 
(kg/100km)/(Wh/10
0km). 
 
Output step 
4, 
Table 
A8/9a 
 
nveh,L; 
nveh,H; 
Output step 
6, 
Table 
A8/9a 
UFphase,j; 
UFcycle,c; 
Output step 
5 
Table 
A8/7 
 
FCCS,declared, 
kg/100km; 
FCCS,p, 
kg/100km; 
Output step 
11, 
Table 
A8/9a 
FCCD,declared, 
kg/100km;  
 
Output step 
10, 
Table 
A8/9a 
FCCD,ave, 
kg/100km; 
 
 
Kfuel,FCHV, 
(kg/100km)/(W
h/100km). 
2 
Output 
step 1,  
 
FCCD,j, kg/100 
km;  
ΔEREESS,j, Wh; 
dj, km; 
nveh; 
RCDC, km 
 
Calculation of equivalent 
all-electric 
range 
according to paragraphs 
4.4.4.1. and 4.4.4.2. of 
this annex, and actual 
charge-depleting 
range 
according 
to 
paragraph 4.4.5. of this 
annex. 
 
Output is available for 
each CD test. 
EAER, km; 
EAERp, km; 
RCDA, km. 



--- PAGE 458 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 458 of 762 
 
 
RCDA shall be rounded 
according 
to 
paragraph 6.1.8. of this 
regulation to the nearest 
whole number. 
 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
applied, the output is 
available for each vehicle 
L, H and, if applicable, M. 
3 
Output 
step 1 
 
AER, km; 
 
Output is available for 
each CD test. 
 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
applied, 
check 
the 
availability 
of 
AER 
interpolation 
between 
vehicle H, L and, if 
applicable, M according 
to paragraph 4.5.7.1. of 
this annex.  
If 
the 
interpolation 
method is used, each test 
shall 
fulfil 
the 
requirement. 
AER-interpolation 
availability. 
Output 
step 2 
 
RCDA, km. 
 
4 
Interpolati
on family 
result. 
If 
the 
interpolati
on method 
is 
not 
applied, 
step 
No. 
9/8 is not 
required 
and 
the 
output of 
Output 
step 1 
AER, km. 
 
Averaging AER and AER 
declaration. 
The declared AER shall 
be rounded according to 
paragraph 6.1.8. of this  
regulation to the number 
of 
decimal 
places 
specified in Table A6/1 of 
Annex B6. 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
applied and the AER 
interpolation availability 
criterion is fulfilled, AER 
AERave, km; 
AERdec, km. 



--- PAGE 459 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 459 of 762 
 
this step is 
the 
final 
result. 
shall 
be 
rounded 
according 
to 
paragraph 6.1.8. of this  
regulation to the first 
place of decimal. 
The output is available for 
each vehicles H and L 
and, if applicable, for 
vehicle M. 
If the case that the 
interpolation method is 
applied but the criterion is 
not fulfilled, AER of 
vehicle H shall be applied 
for 
the 
whole 
interpolation family and 
shall 
be 
rounded 
according 
to 
paragraph 6.1.8. of this  
regulation to the nearest 
whole number. 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
not applied, AER shall be 
rounded 
according 
to 
paragraph 6.1.8. of this  
regulation to the nearest 
whole number. 
5 
Output 
step 1 
FCCD,j, kg/100 
km  
nveh; 
nveh,L; 
UFphase,j; 
FCCS,declared, 
kg/100km; 
FCCD,declared, 
kg/100km; 
FCCD,ave, 
kg/100km; 
 
Calculation of weighted 
CO2 mass emission and 
fuel 
consumption 
according to paragraphs 
4.1.3.1. and 4.2.3. of this 
annex. 
Output is available for 
each CD test. 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
applied, nveh,L cycles shall 
be used. With reference to 
paragraph 4.1.2. of this 
annex, MCO2,CD,j of the 
confirmation cycle shall 
be corrected according to 
Appendix 2 to this annex. 
FCweighted, 
kg/100 km; 
 



--- PAGE 460 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 460 of 762 
 
 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
applied, the output is 
available for each vehicle 
H, vehicle LH and, if 
applicable, vehicle M. 
6 
 
Output 
step 1 
 
EAC, Wh; 
 
Calculation of the electric 
energy 
consumption 
based on EAER according 
to paragraphs 4.3.3.1. and 
4.3.3.2. of this annex.  
Output is available for 
each CD test. 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
applied, the output is 
available for each vehicle 
H, vehicle L and, if 
applicable, vehicle M. 
EC, Wh/km; 
ECp, Wh/km; 
Output 
step 2 
 
EAER, km; 
EAERp, km; 
 
7 
 
Interpolati
on family 
result. 
 
If 
the 
interpolati
on method 
is 
not 
applied, 
step 
No.9/8 is 
not 
required 
and 
the 
output of 
this step is 
the ‘Final 
result’. 
 
 
 
 
Averaging 
and 
intermediate 
rounding 
according 
to 
paragraph 6.1.8. of this  
regulation 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
applied, 
intermediate 
rounding 
shall 
be 
performed according to 
paragraph 6.1.8. of this  
regulation 
FCweighted shall be rounded 
to the third place of 
decimal. 
EC and ECp shall be 
rounded to the first place 
of decimal. 
The output is available for 
each vehicle H, vehicle L 
and, if applicable, vehicle 
M. 
In 
case 
that 
the 
interpolation method is 
not 
applied, 
final 
rounding of the test results 
FCweighted,final, 
kg/100 km; 
ECfinal, Wh/km; 
ECp,final, Wh/km; 
EAERfinal, km; 
EAERp,final, km. 
Output 
step 5 
 
FCweighted, 
kg/100 km; 
 
Output 
step 6 
 
EC, Wh/km; 
ECp, Wh/km; 
 
Output 
step 3 
 
EAER, km; 
EAERp, km. 
 
Output step 
5 
AERdec, km; 
AERave, km. 
 



--- PAGE 461 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 461 of 762 
 
shall be applied according 
to paragraph 6.1.8. of this  
regulation 
EAER and EAERp shall 
be rounded to the nearest 
whole number. 
FCweighted shall be rounded 
to the third place of 
decimal. 
EC and ECp shall be 
rounded to the nearest 
whole number. 
8 
Output step 
5 
AERdec, km; 
Interpolation of individual 
values based on input 
from vehicle low, medium 
and high according to 
paragraph 4.5. 
of 
this 
annex, and final rounding 
according 
to 
paragraph 6.1.8. of this  
regulation 
AERind, 
EAERind 
and 
EAERp,ind 
shall 
be 
rounded to the nearest 
whole number. 
ECweighted,ind 
shall 
be 
rounded to the first place 
of decimal. 
FCweighted,ind 
shall 
be 
rounded to the third place 
of decimal. 
ECind and ECp,ind shall be 
rounded to the nearest 
whole number. 
Output available for each 
individual vehicles. 
RCDC shall be rounded 
according 
to 
paragraph 6.1.8. of this  
regulation to the nearest 
whole number. 
AERind, km; 
FCweighted,ind, 
kg/100 km; 
ECind, Wh/km; 
ECp,ind, Wh/km; 
EAERind, km; 
EAERp,ind, km. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RCDC,final 
Output 
step 7 
 
FCweighted,final, 
kg/100 km; 
ECfinal, Wh/km; 
ECp,final, 
Wh/km; 
EAERfinal, km; 
EAERp,final, km; 
Output 
step 4 
 
AER-
interpolation 
availability. 
Output step 
1 
RCDC 



--- PAGE 462 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 462 of 762 
 
4.7. 
Stepwise procedure for calculating the final test results of PEVs 
The results shall be calculated in the order described in Table A8/10 of the 
consecutive cycle procedure and in the order described in Table A8/11 in 
the case of the shortened test procedure. All applicable results in the column 
"Output" shall be recorded. The column "Process" describes the paragraphs 
to be used for calculation or contains additional calculations. 
4.7.1. 
Stepwise procedure for calculating the final test results of PEVs in case of 
the consecutive cycles procedure 
For the purpose of this table, the following nomenclature within the 
questions and results is used: 
 
j 
index for the considered period. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 463 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 463 of 762 
 
Table A8/10 
Calculation of final PEV values determined by application of the consecutive cycle 
Type I procedure 
The considered periods shall be the low phase, medium phase, high phase, the applicable 
WLTP test cycle. 
Step no. 
Source 
Input 
Process 
Output 
1 
Annex B8 
Test results 
Results measured 
according to Appendix 3 
to this annex and pre-
calculated according to 
paragraph 4.3. of this 
annex. 
ΔEREESS,j, Wh; 
dj, km; 
 
 
 
Usable battery energy 
according to paragraph 
4.4.2.2.1. of this annex. 
Recharged electric 
energy according to 
paragraph 3.4.4.3. of this 
annex. 
Output available for 
each test 
UBECCP, Wh; 
 
 
 
 
EAC shall be rounded 
according to paragraph 
6.1.8. of this Regulation 
to the first place of 
decimal. In the case that 
the interpolation method 
is applied, the output is 
available for vehicle H 
and vehicle L. 
EAC, Wh. 
 



--- PAGE 464 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 464 of 762 
 
Table A8/10 
Calculation of final PEV values determined by application of the consecutive cycle 
Type I procedure 
The considered periods shall be the low phase, medium phase, high phase, the applicable 
WLTP test cycle. 
Step no. 
Source 
Input 
Process 
Output 
1 
Annex B8 
Test results 
Results measured 
according to Appendix 3 
to this annex and pre-
calculated according to 
paragraph 4.3. of this 
annex. 
ΔEREESS,j, Wh; 
dj, km; 
 
 
 
Usable battery energy 
according to paragraph 
4.4.2.2.1. of this annex. 
Recharged electric 
energy according to 
paragraph 3.4.4.3. of this 
annex. 
Output available for 
each test 
UBECCP, Wh; 
 
2 
 
Output step 1 
ΔEREESS,j, Wh; 
UBECCP, Wh. 
Determination of the 
number of completely 
driven applicable WLTC 
phases and cycles 
according to paragraph 
4.4.2.2. of this annex. 
Output available for 
each test. 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
applied, the output is 
available for vehicle H 
and vehicle L. 
nWLTC; 
nlow; 
nmed; 
nhigh; 
 
3 
Output step 1 
 
ΔEREESS,j, Wh; 
UBECCP, Wh. 
 
Calculation of weighting 
factors according to 
paragraph 4.4.2.2. of this 
annex. 
KWLTC,1 
KWLTC,2 
KWLTC,3 



--- PAGE 465 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 465 of 762 
 
Output step 2 
nWLTC; 
nlow; 
nmed; 
nhigh; 
 
Note: The number of 
weighting factors 
depends on the 
applicable cycle that was 
used. The output in 
brackets might be 
needed in addition. 
Output available for 
each test. 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
applied, the output is 
available for vehicle H 
and vehicle L. 
(KWLTC,4) 
Klow,1 
Klow,2 
Klow,3 
Klow,4 
Kmed,1 
Kmed,2 
Kmed,3 
Kmed,4 
Khigh,1 
Khigh,2 
Khigh,3 
Khigh,4 
4 
Output step 1 
 
ΔEREESS,j, Wh; 
dj, km; 
UBECCP, Wh. 
 
Calculation of electric 
energy consumption at 
the REESSs according to 
paragraph 4.4.2.2. of this 
annex. 
Calculation of the 
electric energy 
consumption from the 
first applicable WLTP 
test cycle ECDC,first as 
described in Appendix 8, 
paragraph 1.1. to this 
annex. 
Output available for 
each test. 
 In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
applied, the output is 
available for vehicle H 
and vehicle L. 
ECDC,WLTC, 
Wh/km; 
ECDC,low, 
Wh/km; 
ECDC,med, 
Wh/km; 
ECDC,high, 
Wh/km; 
ECDC,first, 
Wh/km. 
Output step 2 
 
nWLTC; 
nlow; 
nmed; 
nhigh; 
 
Output step 3 
 
All weighting 
factors 
 
5 
Output step 1 
UBECCP, Wh; 
PERWLTC, km; 



--- PAGE 466 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 466 of 762 
 
Table A8/10 
Calculation of final PEV values determined by application of the consecutive cycle 
Type I procedure 
The considered periods shall be the low phase, medium phase, high phase, the applicable 
WLTP test cycle. 
Step no. 
Source 
Input 
Process 
Output 
1 
Annex B8 
Test results 
Results measured 
according to Appendix 3 
to this annex and pre-
calculated according to 
paragraph 4.3. of this 
annex. 
ΔEREESS,j, Wh; 
dj, km; 
 
 
 
Usable battery energy 
according to paragraph 
4.4.2.2.1. of this annex. 
Recharged electric 
energy according to 
paragraph 3.4.4.3. of this 
annex. 
Output available for 
each test 
UBECCP, Wh; 
 
 
 
 
Calculation of pure 
electric range according 
to paragraph 4.4.2.2. of 
this annex.  
Output available for 
each test. 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
applied, the output is 
available for vehicle H 
and vehicle L. 
 
PERlow, km; 
PERmed, km; 
PERhigh, km; 
 
Output step 4 
 
ECDC,WLTC, 
Wh/km; 
ECDC,low, 
Wh/km; 
ECDC,med, 
Wh/km; 
ECDC,high, 
Wh/km; 
Wh/km. 
6 
Output step 1 
 
EAC, Wh; 
 
Calculation of electric 
energy consumption at 
the mains according to 
ECWLTC, 
Wh/km; 



--- PAGE 467 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 467 of 762 
 
Table A8/10 
Calculation of final PEV values determined by application of the consecutive cycle 
Type I procedure 
The considered periods shall be the low phase, medium phase, high phase, the applicable 
WLTP test cycle. 
Step no. 
Source 
Input 
Process 
Output 
1 
Annex B8 
Test results 
Results measured 
according to Appendix 3 
to this annex and pre-
calculated according to 
paragraph 4.3. of this 
annex. 
ΔEREESS,j, Wh; 
dj, km; 
 
 
 
Usable battery energy 
according to paragraph 
4.4.2.2.1. of this annex. 
Recharged electric 
energy according to 
paragraph 3.4.4.3. of this 
annex. 
Output available for 
each test 
UBECCP, Wh; 
 
Output step 5 
 
PERWLTC, km; 
PERlow, km; 
PERmed, km; 
PERhigh, km; 
 
paragraph 4.3.4. of this 
annex.  
 
Output available for 
each test. 
 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
applied, the output is 
available for vehicle H 
and vehicle L. 
EClow, Wh/km; 
ECmed, Wh/km; 
EChigh, 
Wh/km; 
 



--- PAGE 468 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 468 of 762 
 
Table A8/10 
Calculation of final PEV values determined by application of the consecutive cycle 
Type I procedure 
The considered periods shall be the low phase, medium phase, high phase, the applicable 
WLTP test cycle. 
Step no. 
Source 
Input 
Process 
Output 
1 
Annex B8 
Test results 
Results measured 
according to Appendix 3 
to this annex and pre-
calculated according to 
paragraph 4.3. of this 
annex. 
ΔEREESS,j, Wh; 
dj, km; 
 
 
 
Usable battery energy 
according to paragraph 
4.4.2.2.1. of this annex. 
Recharged electric 
energy according to 
paragraph 3.4.4.3. of this 
annex. 
Output available for 
each test 
UBECCP, Wh; 
 
7 
 
If the 
interpolation 
method is 
not applied, 
step No. 10 
is not 
required and 
the output of 
this step for 
PERWLTC,dec 
and 
ECWLTC,dec is 
the final 
result. 
Output step 5 
 
PERWLTC, km; 
PERlow, km; 
PERmed, km; 
PERhigh, km; 
 
Averaging of tests for all 
input values. 
 
 
Declaration of 
PERWLTC,dec and 
ECWLTC,dec based on 
PERWLTC,ave and 
ECWLTC,ave. 
 
Alignment of PER in 
case of city, low, med, 
high and exHigh based 
on the ratio between 
PERWLTC,dec, 
km; 
PERWLTC,ave, 
km; 
PERlow,ave, km; 
PERmed,ave, km; 
PERhigh,ave, km; 
 
ECWLTC,dec, 
Wh/km; 
ECWLTC,ave, 
Wh/km; 
Output step 6 
 
ECWLTC, 
Wh/km; 
EClow, Wh/km; 
ECmed, Wh/km; 
EChigh, Wh/km; 
 



--- PAGE 469 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 469 of 762 
 
Output step 4 
 
ECDC,first, 
Wh/km. 
 
PERWLTC,dec and 
PERWLTC,ave: 
𝐴𝐹𝑃𝐸𝑅= 𝑃𝐸𝑅𝑊𝐿𝑇𝐶,𝑑𝑒𝑐
𝑃𝐸𝑅𝑊𝐿𝑇𝐶,𝑎𝑣𝑒
 
Alignment of EC in case 
of city, low, med, high 
and exHigh based on the 
ratio between ECWLTC,dec 
and ECWLTC,ave: 
𝐴𝐹𝐸𝐶= 𝐸𝐶𝑊𝐿𝑇𝐶,𝑑𝑒𝑐
𝐸𝐶𝑊𝐿𝑇𝐶,𝑎𝑣𝑒
 
 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
applied, the output is 
available for vehicles H 
and vehicle L. 
PERWLTC,dec as well as 
ECWLTC,dec shall be 
rounded according to 
paragraph 6.1.8. of this 
Regulation to the 
number of places of 
decimal as specified in 
Table A6/1 of Annex 
B6. 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
not applied, PERWLTC,dec 
and ECWLTC,dec shall be 
rounded according to 
paragraph 6.1.8. of this 
Regulation to the nearest 
whole number. 
EClow,ave, 
Wh/km; 
ECmed,ave, 
Wh/km; 
EChigh,ave, 
Wh/km; 
ECDC,first,ave, 
Wh/km. 
8 
Output step 7 
ECWLTC,dec, 
Wh/km; 
ECWLTC,ave, 
Wh/km; 
ECDC,first,ave, 
Wh/km. 
 
Adjustment of the 
electric energy 
consumption for the 
purpose of COP as 
described in Appendix 8, 
paragraph 1.1. to this 
annex. 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
ECDC,COP, 
Wh/km. 
 



--- PAGE 470 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 470 of 762 
 
Table A8/10 
Calculation of final PEV values determined by application of the consecutive cycle 
Type I procedure 
The considered periods shall be the low phase, medium phase, high phase, the applicable 
WLTP test cycle. 
Step no. 
Source 
Input 
Process 
Output 
1 
Annex B8 
Test results 
Results measured 
according to Appendix 3 
to this annex and pre-
calculated according to 
paragraph 4.3. of this 
annex. 
ΔEREESS,j, Wh; 
dj, km; 
 
 
 
Usable battery energy 
according to paragraph 
4.4.2.2.1. of this annex. 
Recharged electric 
energy according to 
paragraph 3.4.4.3. of this 
annex. 
Output available for 
each test 
UBECCP, Wh; 
 
applied, the output is 
available for vehicle H 
and vehicle L. 
9 
If 
the 
interpolation 
method 
is 
not applied, 
step No. 10 
is 
not 
required and 
the output of 
this step is 
the 
final 
result. 
 
Output step 7 
 
PERlow,ave, km; 
PERmed,ave, km; 
PERhigh,ave, km; 
EClow,ave, 
Wh/km; 
ECmed,ave, 
Wh/km; 
EChigh,ave, 
Wh/km; 
 
Intermediate rounding 
according to paragraph 
6.1.8. of this Regulation. 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
applied, intermediate 
rounding shall be 
performed according to 
paragraph 6.1.8. of this 
Regulation: 
PERp shall be rounded to 
the first place of 
decimal. 
PERlow,final, 
km; 
PERmed,final, 
km; 
PERhigh,final, 
km; 
EClow,final, 
Wh/km; 
ECmed,final, 
Wh/km; 



--- PAGE 471 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 471 of 762 
 
Output step 8 
 
ECDC,COP, 
Wh/km. 
 
ECp shall be rounded to 
the first place of 
decimal. 
ECDC,COP shall be 
rounded to the first place 
of decimal. 
The output is available 
for vehicle H and 
vehicle L. 
In case that the 
interpolation method is 
not applied, final 
rounding of the test 
results according to 
paragraph 6.1.8. of this 
Regulation: 
PERp shall be rounded to 
the nearest whole 
number. 
ECp shall be rounded to 
the nearest whole 
number. 
ECDC,COP shall be 
rounded to the nearest 
whole number. 
EChigh,final, 
Wh/km; 
ECDC,COP,final, 
Wh/km. 
10 
 
Result of an 
individual 
vehicle. 
Final 
test 
result. 
Output step 7 
 
PERWLTC,dec, 
km; 
ECWLTC,dec, 
Wh/km 
 
Interpolation of 
individual values based 
on input from vehicle H 
and vehicle L according 
to paragraph 4.5. of this 
annex, and final 
rounding according to 
paragraph 6.1.8. of this 
Regulation. 
PERind, and PERp,ind 
shall be rounded to the 
nearest whole number. 
ECind, and ECp,ind shall 
be rounded to the nearest 
whole number. 
PERWLTC,ind, 
km; 
PERlow,ind, km; 
PERmed,ind, km; 
PERhigh,ind, km; 
 
ECWLTC,ind, 
Wh/km; 
EClow,ind, 
Wh/km; 
ECmed,ind, 
Wh/km; 
Output step 9 
PERlow,final, km; 
PERmed,final, km; 
PERhigh,final, km; 
EClow,final, 
Wh/km; 
ECmed,final, 
Wh/km; 



--- PAGE 472 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 472 of 762 
 
Table A8/10 
Calculation of final PEV values determined by application of the consecutive cycle 
Type I procedure 
The considered periods shall be the low phase, medium phase, high phase, the applicable 
WLTP test cycle. 
Step no. 
Source 
Input 
Process 
Output 
1 
Annex B8 
Test results 
Results measured 
according to Appendix 3 
to this annex and pre-
calculated according to 
paragraph 4.3. of this 
annex. 
ΔEREESS,j, Wh; 
dj, km; 
 
 
 
Usable battery energy 
according to paragraph 
4.4.2.2.1. of this annex. 
Recharged electric 
energy according to 
paragraph 3.4.4.3. of this 
annex. 
Output available for 
each test 
UBECCP, Wh; 
 
EChigh,final, 
Wh/km; 
 
ECDC,COP,final, 
Wh/km. 
ECDC,COP,ind shall be 
rounded to the nearest 
whole number. 
The output is available 
for each individual 
vehicle. 
EChigh,ind, 
Wh/km; 
 
 
ECDC,COP,ind, 
Wh/km. 
 
4.7.2. 
Stepwise procedure for calculating the final test results of PEVs in case of 
the shortened test procedure 
For the purpose of this table, the following nomenclature within the questions 
and results is used: 
 
j  index for the considered period. 
 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 473 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 473 of 762 
 
Table A8/11 
Calculation of final PEV values determined by application the shortened Type I test 
procedure 
The considered periods shall be the low phase, medium phase, high phase and the applicable 
WLTP test cycle.  
Step no. 
Source 
Input 
Process 
Output 
1 
Annex B8 
Test results 
Results measured according to 
Appendix 3 to this annex, and 
pre-calculated according to 
paragraph 4.3. of this annex. 
Usable battery energy 
according to paragraph 
4.4.2.1.1. of this annex.  
Recharged electric energy 
according to paragraph 
3.4.4.3. of this annex. 
Output is available for each 
test. 
EAC shall be rounded 
according to paragraph 6.1.8. 
of this Regulation to the first 
place of decimal. 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
applied, the output is available 
for vehicle H and vehicle L. 
ΔEREESS,j, 
Wh; 
dj, km; 
UBESTP, 
Wh; 
EAC, Wh. 
 



--- PAGE 474 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 474 of 762 
 
Table A8/11 
Calculation of final PEV values determined by application the shortened Type I test 
procedure 
The considered periods shall be the low phase, medium phase, high phase and the applicable 
WLTP test cycle.  
Step no. 
Source 
Input 
Process 
Output 
2 
Output step 1 
ΔEREESS,j, Wh; 
UBESTP, Wh. 
 
Calculation of weighting 
factors according to paragraph 
4.4.2.1. of this annex. 
Output is available for each 
test. 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
applied, the output is available 
for vehicle H and vehicle L. 
KWLTC,1 
KWLTC,2 
Klow,1 
Klow,2 
Klow,3 
Klow,4 
Kmed,1 
Kmed,2 
Kmed,3 
Kmed,4 
Khigh,1 
Khigh,2 
 



--- PAGE 475 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 475 of 762 
 
Table A8/11 
Calculation of final PEV values determined by application the shortened Type I test 
procedure 
The considered periods shall be the low phase, medium phase, high phase and the applicable 
WLTP test cycle.  
Step no. 
Source 
Input 
Process 
Output 
3 
Output step 1 
 
 
Output step 2 
 
ΔEREESS,j, Wh; 
dj, km; 
UBESTP, Wh. 
All weighting 
factors 
 
Calculation of electric energy 
consumption at the REESSs 
according to paragraph 
4.4.2.1. of this annex.  
 
Calculation of the electric 
energy consumption from the 
first applicable WLTP test 
cycle ECDC,first as described in 
Appendix 8, paragraph 1.1. to 
this annex. 
Output is available for each 
test. 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
applied, the output is available 
for vehicle H and vehicle L. 
ECDC,WLTC
, Wh/km; 
Wh/km; 
ECDC,low, 
Wh/km; 
ECDC, med, 
Wh/km; 
ECDC,high, 
Wh/km; 
Wh/km; 
ECDC,first, 
Wh/km. 
4 
Output step 1 
 
UBESTP, Wh; 
 
Calculation of pure electric 
range according to paragraph 
4.4.2.1. of this annex.  
Output is available for each 
test. 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
applied, the output is available 
for vehicle H and vehicle L. 
PERWLTC, 
km; 
PERlow, 
km; 
PERmed, 
km; 
PERhigh, 
km; 
 
Output step 3 
 
ECDC,WLTC, 
Wh/km; 
ECDC,low, 
Wh/km; 
ECDC,med, 
Wh/km; 
ECDC,high, 
Wh/km; 
5 
 
Output step 1 
 
EAC, Wh; 
 
Calculation of electric energy 
consumption at the mains 
ECWLTC, 
Wh/km; 



--- PAGE 476 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 476 of 762 
 
Table A8/11 
Calculation of final PEV values determined by application the shortened Type I test 
procedure 
The considered periods shall be the low phase, medium phase, high phase and the applicable 
WLTP test cycle.  
Step no. 
Source 
Input 
Process 
Output 
Output step 4 
 
PERWLTC, km; 
PERlow, km; 
PERmed, km; 
PERhigh, km; 
 
according to paragraph 4.3.4. 
of this annex. 
Output is available for each 
test. 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
applied, the output is available 
for vehicle H and vehicle L. 
EClow, 
Wh/km; 
ECmed, 
Wh/km; 
EChigh, 
Wh/km; 
 
6 
 
If 
the 
interpolati
on method 
is 
not 
applied, 
step No. 9 
is 
not 
required 
and 
the 
output 
of 
this 
step 
for 
PERWLTC,de
c 
and 
ECWLTC,dec 
Output step 4 
 
PERWLTC, km; 
PERlow, km; 
PERmed, km; 
PERhigh, km; 
 
Averaging of tests for all 
input values. 
 
 
 
Declaration of PERWLTC,dec 
and ECWLTC,dec based on 
PERWLTC,ave and ECWLTC,ave. 
 
Alignment of PER in case of 
low, med, high based on the 
ratio between PERWLTC,dec and 
PERWLTC,ave: 
PERWLTC,d
ec, km; 
PERWLTC,a
ve, km; 
PERlow,ave, 
km; 
PERmed,ave, 
km; 
PERhigh,ave, 
km; 
 
ECWLTC,dec
, Wh/km; 
Output step 5 
 
ECWLTC, 
Wh/km; 
EClow, Wh/km; 
ECmed, Wh/km; 
EChigh, 
Wh/km; 
 



--- PAGE 477 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 477 of 762 
 
Table A8/11 
Calculation of final PEV values determined by application the shortened Type I test 
procedure 
The considered periods shall be the low phase, medium phase, high phase and the applicable 
WLTP test cycle.  
Step no. 
Source 
Input 
Process 
Output 
is the final 
result. 
Output step 3 
 
ECDC,first, 
Wh/km. 
 
𝐴𝐹𝑃𝐸𝑅= 𝑃𝐸𝑅𝑊𝐿𝑇𝐶,𝑑𝑒𝑐
𝑃𝐸𝑅𝑊𝐿𝑇𝐶,𝑎𝑣𝑒
 
Alignment of EC in case of 
city, low, med and high based 
on the ratio between 
ECWLTC,dec and ECWLTC,ave: 
𝐴𝐹𝐸𝐶= 𝐸𝐶𝑊𝐿𝑇𝐶,𝑑𝑒𝑐
𝐸𝐶𝑊𝐿𝑇𝐶,𝑎𝑣𝑒
 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
applied, the output is available 
for vehicle H and vehicle L. 
PERWLTC,dec as well as 
ECWLTC,dec shall be rounded 
according to paragraph 6.1.8. 
of this Regulation to the 
number of places of decimal 
specified in Table A6/1 of 
Annex B6. 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is not 
applied, PERWLTC,dec and 
ECWLTC,dec shall be rounded 
according to paragraph 6.1.8. 
of this Regulation to the 
nearest whole number. 
ECWLTC,ave
, Wh/km; 
EClow,ave, 
Wh/km; 
ECmed,ave, 
Wh/km; 
EChigh,ave, 
Wh/km; 
ECDC,first,av
e, Wh/km. 
7 
Output step 6 
ECWLTC,dec, 
Wh/km; 
ECWLTC,ave, 
Wh/km; 
ECDC,first,ave, 
Wh/km. 
 
Adjustment of the electric 
energy consumption for the 
purpose of COP as described 
in Appendix 8, Paragraph 1.1. 
to this annex. 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
applied, the output is available 
for vehicle H and vehicle L. 
ECDC,COP, 
Wh/km. 
 



--- PAGE 478 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 478 of 762 
 
Table A8/11 
Calculation of final PEV values determined by application the shortened Type I test 
procedure 
The considered periods shall be the low phase, medium phase, high phase and the applicable 
WLTP test cycle.  
Step no. 
Source 
Input 
Process 
Output 
8 
 
Interpolati
on family 
result. 
If 
the 
interpolati
on method 
is 
not 
applied, 
step No. 9 
is 
not 
required 
and 
the 
output 
of 
this step is 
the 
final 
result. 
 
 
 
Output step 6 
 
PERlow,ave, km; 
PERmed,ave, km; 
PERhigh,ave, km; 
 
EClow,ave, 
Wh/km; 
ECmed,ave, 
Wh/km; 
EChigh,ave, 
Wh/km; 
 
Intermediate rounding 
according to paragraph 6.1.8. 
of this Regulation. 
In the case that the 
interpolation method is 
applied, intermediate 
rounding shall be performed 
according to paragraph 6.1.8. 
of this Regulation: 
PERcity and PERp shall be 
rounded to the first place of 
decimal. 
ECcity and ECp shall be 
rounded to the first place of 
decimal. 
ECDC,COP shall be rounded to 
the first place of decimal. 
The output is available for 
vehicle H and vehicle L. 
In case that the interpolation 
method is not applied, final 
rounding of the test results 
according to paragraph 6.1.8. 
of this Regulation shall apply: 
PERp shall be rounded to the 
nearest whole number. 
ECp shall be rounded to the 
nearest whole number. 
 
ECDC,COP shall be rounded to 
the nearest whole number. 
PERlow,final
, km; 
PERmed,final
, km; 
PERhigh,final
, km; 
 
EClow,final, 
Wh/km; 
ECmed,final, 
Wh/km; 
EChigh,final, 
Wh/km; 
 
ECDC,COP,fi
nal, 
Wh/km. 
Output step 7 
 
ECDC,COP, 
Wh/km. 
 



--- PAGE 479 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 479 of 762 
 
Table A8/11 
Calculation of final PEV values determined by application the shortened Type I test 
procedure 
The considered periods shall be the low phase, medium phase, high phase and the applicable 
WLTP test cycle.  
Step no. 
Source 
Input 
Process 
Output 
9 
 
Result 
of 
an 
individual 
vehicle. 
Final 
test 
result. 
Output step 6 
 
PERWLTC,dec, 
km; 
ECWLTC,dec, 
Wh/km; 
Interpolation of individual 
values based on input from 
vehicle H and vehicle L 
according to paragraph 4.5. of 
this annex, and final rounding 
according to paragraph 6.1.8. 
of this Regulation. 
PERind, and PERp,ind shall be 
rounded to the nearest whole 
number. 
ECind, and ECp,ind shall be 
rounded to the nearest whole 
number. 
ECDC,COP,ind shall be rounded 
to the nearest whole number. 
Output available for each 
individual vehicle. 
 
 
PERWLTC,in
d, km; 
PERlow,ind, 
km; 
PERmed,ind, 
km; 
PERhigh,ind, 
km; 
ECWLTC,ind
, Wh/km; 
EClow,ind, 
Wh/km; 
ECmed,ind, 
Wh/km; 
EChigh,ind, 
Wh/km; 
ECDC,COP,in
d, Wh/km. 
 b 
 
PERlow,final, 
km; 
PERmed,final, 
km; 
PERhigh,final, 
km; 
EClow,final, 
Wh/km; 
ECmed,final, 
Wh/km; 
EChigh,final, 
Wh/km; 
ECDC,COP,final, 
Wh/km. 
 
 



--- PAGE 480 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 480 of 762 
 
 
 
Annex B8 - Appendix 1 
REESS state of charge profile 
1.0 
Test sequences and REESS profiles: OVC-HEVs, OVC-FCHVs charge-depleting 
and charge-sustaining test 
1.1. 
Test sequence OVC-HEVs and OVC-FCHVs according to Option 1  
Charge-depleting Type I test with no subsequent charge-sustaining Type I test 
(Figure A8.App1/1) 
Figure A8.App1/1 
OVC-HEVs, charge-depleting Type I test 
 
1.2. 
Test sequence OVC-HEVs and OVC-FCHVs according to Option 2 
Charge-sustaining Type I test with no subsequent charge-depleting Type I test 
(Figure A8.App1/2). 
Figure A8.App1/2 
OVC-HEVs and OVC-FCHVs, charge-sustaining Type I test 
 
Soak time after each driven test cycle during CD 
Type 1 test: max. 30min
REESS 
fully 
charged 
Charge Depleting Cycle Range RCDC
Charge Depleting  Range RCDA
CD Type 1 test
Charging
All Electric Range
Equivalent All Electric Range
First Start of ICE
Fully Charged
Preconditioning
applicable test cycle
n-2
applicable test cycle n+1
(confirmation cycle)
Soak
+ 
REESS charging
Charging
ΔE  
EAC
(recharging energy
from the main)
Max.
120
min.
REESS
state of charge
applicable test cycle 
n-1
applicable test cycle n
(transition cycle)



--- PAGE 481 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 481 of 762 
 
1.3. 
Test sequence OVC-HEVs and OVC-FCHVs  according to Option 3 
Charge-depleting Type I test with subsequent charge-sustaining Type I test 
(Figure A8.App1/3). 
Figure A8.App1/3 
OVC-HEVs and OVC-FCHVs, charge-depleting Type I test with subsequent           
charge-sustaining Type I test 
 
Soak time after each driven test cycle during CD 
Type 1 test: max. 30min
Charge Depleting Cycle Range RCDC
Charge Depleting  Range RCDA
CD Type 1 test
Charging
All Electric Range
Equivalent All Electric Range
First Start of ICE
Fully Charged
Preconditioning
applicable test cycle 
n-2
applicable test cycle 
n-1
applicable test cycle n
(transition cycle)
applicable test cycle n+1
(confirmation cycle)
Soak
+ 
REESS 
charging
Continue at "A" on 
next diagram
REESS
state of charge
REESS 
fully 
charged 
ΔE  
CS Type 1 test
Soak 
1 applicable test cycle
(cold)
"A"
EAC
(recharging energy
from the mains)
Max.
120
min.
Charging
REESS
state of charge



--- PAGE 482 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 482 of 762 
 
1.4. 
Test sequence OVC-HEVs and OVC-FCHVs  according to Option 4  
Charge-sustaining Type I test with subsequent charge-depleting Type I test 
(Figure A8.App1/4) 
Figure A8.App1/4 
OVC-HEVs and OVC-FCHVs, charge-sustaining Type I test with subsequent charge-
depleting Type I test 
 
2.0 
Test sequence NOVC-HEVs and NOVC-FCHVs 
Charge-sustaining Type I test (Figure A8.App1/5) 
Figure A8.App1/5 
NOVC-HEVs and NOVC-FCHVs, charge-sustaining Type I test 
Soak time after each driven test cycle during CD 
Type 1 test: max. 30min
Charge Depleting Cycle Range RCDC
Charge Depleting  Range RCDA
CD Type 1 test
Charging
All Electric Range
Equivalent All Electric Range
First Start of ICE
Fully Charged
applicable test cycle 
n-2
applicable test cycle 
applicable test cycle n
(transition cycle)
applicable test cycle n+1
(confirmation cycle)
Soak
+ 
REESS 
charging
Charging
ΔE  
Max.
120
min.
"B"
EAC
(recharging energy
from the main)
REESS
state of charge
"B"
CS Type 1 test
1 applicable test cycle 
(cold)
Soak
at least 1 applicable test cycle
Preconditioning 
REESS
state of charge
REESS 
fully 
charged 



--- PAGE 483 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 483 of 762 
 
 
3.0 
Test sequences PEV 
3.1. 
Consecutive cycles procedure (Figure A8.App1/6) 
Figure A8.App1/6 
Consecutive cycles test sequence PEV 
 
 
3.2. 
Shortened test procedure (Figure A8.App1/7) 
 
 



--- PAGE 484 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 484 of 762 
 
Figure A8.App1/7 
Shortened test procedure test sequence for PEVs 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 485 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 485 of 762 
 
 
Annex B8 - Appendix 2 
REESS energy change-based correction procedure 
 
This Appendix describes the procedure to correct the charge-sustaining Type I test 
CO2 mass emission for NOVC-HEVs and OVC-HEVs, and the fuel consumption 
for NOVC-FCHVs and OVC-FCHVs as a function of the electric energy change 
of all REESSs. 
1.0 
General requirements 
1.1. 
Applicability of this appendix 
1.1.1. 
The correction shall be applied on the phase-specific fuel consumptions for 
NOVC-FCHVs and OVC-FCHVs of the charge-sustaining Type I test, and on the 
phase-specific CO2 mass emissions for NOVC-HEVs and OVC-HEVs of the 
charge-sustaining Type I test. 
1.1.2. 
The application of the correction over the total cycle on the fuel consumption for 
NOVC-FCHVs and OVC-FCHVs, on the CO2 mass emission for NOVC-HEVs 
and OVC-HEVs is based on the charge-sustaining REESS energy change 
∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝐶𝑆 of the charge-sustaining Type I test and the correction criterion c. 
For the calculation of ∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝐶𝑆, paragraph 4.3. of this annex shall be used. The 
considered period j used in paragraph 4.3. of this annex is defined by the charge-
sustaining Type I test. The correction criterion c shall be determined according to 
paragraph 1.2. of this Appendix.  
1.1.3. 
The correction over the total cycle shall be applied on the fuel consumption for 
NOVC-FCHVs and OVC-FCHVs, the CO2 mass emission for NOVC-HEVs and 
OVC-HEVs if ∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝐶𝑆 is negative which corresponds to REESS discharging 
and the correction criterion c calculated in paragraph 1.2. of this appendix is greater 
than the applicable threshold according to Table A8.App2/1. 
1.1.4. 
The correction over the total cycle may be omitted on the fuel consumption for 
NOVC-FCHVs and OVC-FCHVs, the CO2 mass emission for NOVC-HEVs and 
OVC-HEVs and uncorrected values may be used if: 
 
(a) 
∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝐶𝑆 is positive which corresponds to REESS charging and the 
correction criterion c calculated in paragraph 1.2. of this appendix is 
greater than the applicable threshold according to Table A8.App2/1; 
 
(b) 
The correction criterion c calculated in paragraph 1.2. of this appendix is 
smaller than the applicable threshold according to Table A8.App2/1; 
 
(c) 
The manufacturer can prove to the Test Agency by measurement that there 
is no relation between ∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝐶𝑆 and charge-sustaining CO2 mass 
emission and ∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝐶𝑆 and fuel consumption respectively. 



--- PAGE 486 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 486 of 762 
 
1.2. 
The correction criterion c is the ratio between the absolute value of the REESS 
electric energy change ∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝐶𝑆 and the fuel energy and shall be calculated as 
follows: 
𝑐= |∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝐶𝑆|
𝐸𝑓𝑢𝑒𝑙,𝐶𝑆
 
 
Where: 
 
∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝐶𝑆 
is the charge-sustaining REESS energy change according to 
paragraph 1.1.2. of this appendix, Wh; 
 
𝐸𝑓𝑢𝑒𝑙,𝐶𝑆 
is the charge-sustaining energy content of the consumed fuel 
according to paragraph 1.2.1. of this appendix in the case of 
NOVC-HEVs and OVC-HEVs, and according to paragraph 1.2.2. 
of this appendix in the case of NOVC-FCHVs and OVC-FCHVs, 
Wh. 
1.2.1. 
Charge-sustaining fuel energy for NOVC-HEVs and OVC-HEVs 
The charge-sustaining energy content of the consumed fuel for NOVC-HEVs and 
OVC-HEVs shall be calculated using the following equation:  
𝐸𝑓𝑢𝑒𝑙,𝐶𝑆= 10 × 𝐻𝑉× 𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑛𝑏× 𝑑𝐶𝑆 
 
where: 
 
𝐸𝑓𝑢𝑒𝑙,𝐶𝑆 
 is the charge-sustaining energy content of the consumed fuel of the 
applicable WLTP test cycle of the charge-sustaining Type I test, Wh; 
 
𝐻𝑉 
 is the heating value according to Table A6.App2/1, kWh/l; 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑛𝑏 
is the non-balanced charge-sustaining fuel consumption of the charge-
sustaining Type I test, not corrected for the energy balance, determined 
according to paragraph 6. of Annex B7, using the gaseous emission 
compound values according to Table A8/5, step No. 2, l/100 km; 
 
𝑑𝐶𝑆 
is the distance driven over the corresponding applicable WLTP test 
cycle, km; 
 
10 
conversion factor to Wh. 
1.2.2. 
Charge-sustaining fuel energy for NOVC-FCHVs and OVC-FCHVs 
The charge-sustaining energy content of the consumed fuel for NOVC-FCHVs and 
OVC-FCHVs shall be calculated using the following equation: 
𝐸𝑓𝑢𝑒𝑙,𝐶𝑆=
1
0.36 × 121 × 𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑛𝑏× 𝑑𝐶𝑆 
 
where: 



--- PAGE 487 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 487 of 762 
 
 
𝐸𝑓𝑢𝑒𝑙,𝐶𝑆 
is the charge-sustaining energy content of the consumed fuel of 
the applicable WLTP test cycle of the charge-sustaining Type I 
test, Wh; 
 
121 
is the lower heating value of hydrogen, MJ/kg; 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑛𝑏 
is the non-balanced charge-sustaining fuel consumption of the 
charge-sustaining Type I test, not corrected for the energy 
balance, determined according to Table A8/7, step No. 1, 
kg/100 km; 
 
𝑑𝐶𝑆 
is the distance driven over the corresponding applicable WLTP 
test cycle, km; 
 
1
0.36 conversion factor to Wh. 
 
Table A8.App2/1 
RCB correction criteria thresholds 
 
Applicable Type I test 
cycle 
Low + Medium 
Low + Medium + 
High 
 
Thresholds for 
correction criterion c 
0.015 
0.01 
2.0 
Calculation of correction coefficients 
2.1. 
The CO2 mass emission correction coefficient KCO2, the fuel consumption 
correction coefficients Kfuel,FCHV, as well as, if required by the manufacturer, the 
phase-specific correction coefficients KCO2,p and Kfuel,FCHV,p shall be developed 
based on the applicable charge-sustaining Type I test cycles.  
In the case that vehicle H was tested for the development of the correction 
coefficient for CO2 mass emission for NOVC-HEVs and OVC-HEVs, the 
coefficient may be applied to vehicles that fulfil the same interpolation family 
criteria. For interpolation families which fulfil the criteria of the KCO2 correction 
family, defined in paragraph 6.3.2.5 of this  regulation, the same KCO2 value may 
be applied. 
2.2. 
The correction coefficients shall be determined from a set of charge-sustaining 
Type I tests according to paragraph 3. of this appendix. The number of tests 
performed by the manufacturer shall be equal to or greater than five. 
The manufacturer may request to set the state of charge of the REESS prior to the 
test according to the manufacturer’s recommendation and as described in 
paragraph 3. of this appendix. This practice shall only be used for the purpose of 
achieving a charge-sustaining Type I test with opposite sign of the ∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝐶𝑆 and 
with approval of the Test Agency. 



--- PAGE 488 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 488 of 762 
 
The set of measurements shall fulfil the following criteria: 
 
(a) 
The set shall contain at least one test with ∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝐶𝑆,𝑛≤0 and at least one 
test with ∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝐶𝑆,𝑛> 0. ∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝐶𝑆,𝑛 is the sum of electric energy 
changes of all REESSs of test n calculated according to paragraph 4.3. of 
this annex. 
 
(b) 
The difference in 𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆 between the test with the highest negative electric 
energy change and the test with the highest positive electric energy change 
shall be greater than or equal to 5 g/km. This criterion shall not be applied 
for the determination of Kfuel,FCHV. 
In the case of the determination of KCO2, the required number of tests may 
be reduced to three tests if all of the following criteria are fulfilled in 
addition to (a) and (b): 
 
(c)
 
 
The difference in 𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆 between any two adjacent measurements, related 
to the electric energy change during the test, shall be less than or equal to 
10 g/km. 
 
(d)
 
 
In addition to (b), the test with the highest negative electric energy change 
and the test with the highest positive electric energy change shall not be 
within the region that is defined by: 
−0.01 ≤∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆
𝐸𝑓𝑢𝑒𝑙
≤+0.01 
 
where: 
 
𝐸𝑓𝑢𝑒𝑙 is the energy content of the consumed fuel calculated according to 
paragraph 1.2. of this appendix, Wh. 
 
(e) 
The difference in 𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆 between the test with the highest negative electric 
energy change and the mid-point, and the difference in 𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆 between the 
mid-point and the test with the highest positive electric energy change shall 
be similar and preferably be within the range defined by (d). If this 
requirement is not feasible, the Test Agency shall decide if a retest is 
necessary. 
 
The correction coefficients determined by the manufacturer shall be reviewed and 
approved by the Test Agency prior to its application. 
If the set of at least five tests does not fulfil criterion (a) or criterion (b) or both, 
the manufacturer shall provide evidence to the Test Agency as to why the vehicle 
is not capable of meeting either or both criteria. If the Test Agency is not satisfied 
with the evidence, it may require additional tests to be performed. If the criteria 
after additional tests are still not fulfilled, the Test Agency shall determine a 
conservative correction coefficient, based on the measurements. 
2.3. 
Calculation of correction coefficients 𝐾𝑓𝑢𝑒𝑙,𝐹𝐶𝐻𝑉 and 𝐾𝐶𝑂2 



--- PAGE 489 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 489 of 762 
 
2.3.1. 
Determination of the fuel consumption correction coefficient 𝐾𝑓𝑢𝑒𝑙,𝐹𝐶𝐻𝑉 
For NOVC-FCHVs and OVC-FCHVs, the fuel consumption correction coefficient 
𝐾𝑓𝑢𝑒𝑙,𝐹𝐶𝐻𝑉, determined by driving a set of charge-sustaining Type I tests, is defined 
using the following equation: 
 
𝐾𝑓𝑢𝑒𝑙,𝐹𝐶𝐻𝑉=
∑
((𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝑆,𝑛− 𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝑆,𝑎𝑣𝑔) × (𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑛𝑏,𝑛− 𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑛𝑏,𝑎𝑣𝑔))
𝑛𝐶𝑆
𝑛=1
∑
(𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝑆,𝑛− 𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝑆,𝑎𝑣𝑔)2
𝑛𝐶𝑆
𝑛=1
 
 
where: 
 
𝐾𝑓𝑢𝑒𝑙,𝐹𝐶𝐻𝑉 
is 
the 
fuel 
consumption 
correction 
coefficient, 
(kg/100 km)/(Wh/km); 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝑆,𝑛 
is the charge-sustaining electric energy consumption of test n 
based on the REESS depletion according to the equation below, 
Wh/km 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝑆,𝑎𝑣𝑔 
is the mean charge-sustaining electric energy consumption of 𝑛𝐶𝑆 
tests based on the REESS depletion according to the equation 
below, Wh/km; 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑛𝑏,𝑛 
is the charge-sustaining fuel consumption of test n, not corrected 
for the energy balance, according to Table A8/7, step No. 1, 
kg/100 km; 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑛𝑏,𝑎𝑣𝑔 
is the arithmetic average of the charge-sustaining fuel consumption 
of 𝑛𝐶𝑆 tests based on the fuel consumption, not corrected for the 
energy balance, according to the equation below, kg/100 km; 
 
𝑛 
is the index number of the considered test; 
 
𝑛𝐶𝑆 
is the total number of tests; 
 
and: 
 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝑆,𝑎𝑣𝑔= 1
𝑛𝐶𝑆
× ∑
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝑆,𝑛
𝑛𝐶𝑆
𝑛=1
 
 
and: 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑛𝑏,𝑎𝑣𝑔= 1
𝑛𝐶𝑆
× ∑
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑛𝑏,𝑛
𝑛𝐶𝑆
𝑛=1
 
 
and: 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝑆,𝑛= ∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝐶𝑆,𝑛
𝑑𝐶𝑆,𝑛
 



--- PAGE 490 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 490 of 762 
 
 
where: 
 
∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝐶𝑆is the charge-sustaining REESS electric energy change of test n 
according to paragraph 1.1.2. of this appendix, Wh; 
 
𝑑𝐶𝑆,𝑛 
is the distance driven over the corresponding charge-sustaining Type I 
test n, km. 
 
The fuel consumption correction coefficient shall be rounded according to 
paragraph 6.1.8. of this Regulation to four significant figures. The statistical 
significance of the fuel consumption correction coefficient shall be evaluated by 
the Test Agency. 
2.3.1.1. 
It is permitted to apply the fuel consumption correction coefficient that was 
developed from tests over the whole applicable WLTP test cycle for the correction 
of each individual phase. 
2.3.1.2. 
Additional to the requirements of paragraph 2.2. of this appendix, at the 
manufacturer’s request and upon approval of the Test Agency, separate fuel 
consumption correction coefficients 𝐾𝑓𝑢𝑒𝑙,𝐹𝐶𝐻𝑉,𝑝 for each individual phase may be 
developed. In this case, the same criteria as described in paragraph 2.2. of this 
appendix shall be fulfilled in each individual phase and the procedure described in 
paragraph 2.3.1. of this appendix shall be applied for each individual phase to 
determine each phase specific correction coefficient. 
2.3.2. 
Determination of CO2 mass emission correction coefficient KCO2 
For OVC-HEVs and NOVC-HEVs, the CO2 mass emission correction coefficient 
𝐾𝐶𝑂2, determined by driving a set of charge-sustaining Type I tests, is defined by 
the following equation: 
 
 
𝐾𝐶𝑂2 =
∑
((𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝑆,𝑛−𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝑆,𝑎𝑣𝑔)×(𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑛𝑏,𝑛−𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑛𝑏,𝑎𝑣𝑔))
𝑛𝐶𝑆
𝑛=1
∑
(𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝑆,𝑛−𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝑆,𝑎𝑣𝑔)
2
𝑛𝐶𝑆
𝑛=1
 
 
where: 
 
𝐾𝐶𝑂2 
is the CO2 mass emission correction coefficient, (g/km)/(Wh/km); 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝑆,𝑛 
is the charge-sustaining electric energy consumption of test n 
based on the REESS depletion according to paragraph 2.3.1. of 
this appendix, Wh/km; 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝑆,𝑎𝑣𝑔 
is the arithmetic average of the charge-sustaining electric energy 
consumption of 𝑛𝐶𝑆 tests based on the REESS depletion according 
to paragraph 2.3.1. of this appendix, Wh/km; 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑛𝑏,𝑛 
is the charge-sustaining CO2 mass emission of test n, not corrected 
for the energy balance, calculated according Table A8/5, step 
No. 2, g/km; 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑛𝑏,𝑎𝑣𝑔 is the arithmetic average of the charge-sustaining CO2 mass 
emission of 𝑛𝐶𝑆 tests based on the CO2 mass emission, not 



--- PAGE 491 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 491 of 762 
 
corrected for the energy balance, according to the equation below, 
g/km; 
 
𝑛 
is the index number of the considered test; 
 
𝑛𝐶𝑆 
is the total number of tests; 
 
and: 
 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑛𝑏,𝑎𝑣𝑔= 1
𝑛𝐶𝑆
× ∑
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝐶𝑆,𝑛𝑏,𝑛
𝑛𝐶𝑆
𝑛=1
 
 
The CO2 mass emission correction coefficient shall be rounded according to 
paragraph 6.1.8. of this Regulation to four significant figures. The statistical 
significance of the CO2 mass emission correction coefficient shall be evaluated by 
the Test Agency. 
2.3.2.1. 
It is permitted to apply the CO2 mass emission correction coefficient developed 
from tests over the whole applicable WLTP test cycle for the correction of each 
individual phase. 
2.3.2.2. 
Additional to the requirements of paragraph 2.2. of this appendix, at the request of 
the manufacturer and upon approval of the Test Agency, separate CO2 mass 
emission correction coefficients 𝐾𝐶𝑂2,𝑝 for each individual phase may be 
developed. In this case, the same criteria as described in paragraph 2.2. of this 
appendix shall be fulfilled in each individual phase and the procedure described in 
paragraph 2.3.2. of this appendix shall be applied for each individual phase to 
determine phase-specific correction coefficients. 
3.0 
Test procedure for the determination of the correction coefficients 
3.1. 
OVC-HEVs and OVC-FCHVs 
For OVC-HEVs and OVC-FCHVs, one of the following test sequences according 
to Figure A8.App2/1 shall be used to measure all values that are necessary for the 
determination of the correction coefficients according to paragraph 2. of this 
appendix. 



--- PAGE 492 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 492 of 762 
 
Figure A8.App2/1 
OVC-HEV, and OVC-FCHVs test sequences 
 
3.1.1. 
Option 1 test sequence 
3.1.1.1. 
Preconditioning and soaking 
Preconditioning and soaking shall be conducted according to paragraph 2.1. of 
Appendix 4 to this annex. 
3.1.1.2. 
REESS adjustment 
Prior to the test procedure according to paragraph 3.1.1.3. of this appendix, the 
manufacturer may adjust the REESS. The manufacturer shall provide evidence that 
the requirements for the beginning of the test according to paragraph 3.1.1.3. of 
this appendix are fulfilled. 
3.1.1.3. 
Test procedure 
3.1.1.3.1. The driver-selectable mode for the applicable WLTP test cycle shall be selected 
according to paragraph 3. of Appendix 6 to this annex. 
3.1.1.3.2. For testing, the applicable WLTP test cycle according to paragraph 1.4.2. of this 
annex shall be driven. 
3.1.1.3.3. Unless stated otherwise in this appendix, the vehicle shall be tested according to 
the Type I test procedure described in Annex B6. 
3.1.1.3.4. To obtain a set of applicable WLTP test cycles required for the determination of 
the correction coefficients, the test may be followed by a number of consecutive 
sequences required according to paragraph 2.2. of this appendix consisting of 
paragraph 3.1.1.1. to paragraph 3.1.1.3. inclusive of this appendix. 
3.1.2. 
Option 2 test sequence 



--- PAGE 493 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 493 of 762 
 
3.1.2.1. 
Preconditioning 
The test vehicle shall be preconditioned according to paragraph 2.1.1. or paragraph 
2.1.2. of Appendix 4 to this annex. 
3.1.2.2. 
REESS adjustment 
After preconditioning, soaking according to paragraph 2.1.3. of Appendix 4 to this 
annex shall be omitted and a break, during which the REESS is permitted to be 
adjusted, shall be set to a maximum duration of 60 minutes. A similar break shall 
be applied in advance of each test. Immediately after the end of this break, the 
requirements of paragraph 3.1.2.3. of this appendix shall be applied. 
Upon request of the manufacturer, an additional warm-up procedure may be 
conducted in advance of the REESS adjustment to ensure similar starting 
conditions for the correction coefficient determination. If the manufacturer 
requests this additional warm-up procedure, the identical warm-up procedure shall 
be applied repeatedly within the test sequence. 
3.1.2.3. 
Test procedure 
3.1.2.3.1. The driver-selectable mode for the applicable WLTP test cycle shall be selected 
according to paragraph 3. of Appendix 6 to this annex. 
3.1.2.3.2. For testing, the applicable WLTP test cycle according to paragraph 1.4.2. of this 
annex shall be driven. 
3.1.2.3.3.
 
 
Unless stated otherwise in this appendix, the vehicle shall be tested according to 
the Type I test procedure described in Annex B6. 
3.1.2.3.4. To obtain a set of applicable WLTP test cycles that are required for the 
determination of the correction coefficients, the test may be followed by a number 
of consecutive sequences required according to paragraph 2.2. of this appendix 
consisting of paragraphs 3.1.2.2. and 3.1.2.3. of this appendix. 
3.2. 
NOVC-HEVs and NOVC-FCHVs 
For NOVC-HEVs and NOVC-FCHVs, one of the following test sequences 
according to Figure A8.App2/2 shall be used to measure all values that are 
necessary for the determination of the correction coefficients according to 
paragraph 2. of this appendix. 
Figure A8.App2/2 
NOVC-HEV and NOVC-FCHV test sequences 
 



--- PAGE 494 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 494 of 762 
 
 
3.2.1. 
Option 1 test sequence 
3.2.1.1. 
Preconditioning and soaking 
The test vehicle shall be preconditioned and soaked according to paragraph 3.3.1. 
of this annex. 
3.2.1.2. 
REESS adjustment 
Prior to the test procedure, according to paragraph 3.2.1.3. of this appendix, the 
manufacturer may adjust the REESS. The manufacturer shall provide evidence that 
the requirements for the beginning of the test according to paragraph 3.2.1.3. of 
this appendix are fulfilled. 
3.2.1.3. 
Test procedure 
3.2.1.3.1. The driver-selectable mode shall be selected according to paragraph 3. of 
Appendix 6 to this annex. 
3.2.1.3.2.
 
 
For testing, the applicable WLTP test cycle according to paragraph 1.4.2. of this 
annex shall be driven. 
3.2.1.3.3. Unless stated otherwise in this appendix, the vehicle shall be tested according to 
the charge-sustaining Type I test procedure described in Annex B6. 
3.2.1.3.4. To obtain a set of applicable WLTP test cycles that are required for the 
determination of the correction coefficients, the test can be followed by a number 
of consecutive sequences required according to paragraph 2.2. of this appendix 
consisting of paragraph 3.2.1.1. to paragraph 3.2.1.3. inclusive of this appendix. 
3.2.2. 
Option 2 test sequence 
Option 1 test sequence 
(paragraph 3.2.1. of this appendix) 
Option 2 test sequence 
(paragraph 3.2.2. of this appendix) 
Preconditioning 
Applicable WLTP test cycle 
REESS adjustment within a similar 
break of max. 60min
Optional:  
Additional warm up procedure
Preconditioning and soaking  
Applicable WLTP test cycle 
REESS adjustment 



--- PAGE 495 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 495 of 762 
 
3.2.2.1.  Preconditioning 
The test vehicle shall be preconditioned according to paragraph 3.3.1.1. of this 
annex. 
3.2.2.2. 
REESS adjustment 
After preconditioning, the soaking according to paragraph 3.3.1.2. of this annex 
shall be omitted and a break, during which the REESS is permitted to be adjusted, 
shall be set to a maximum duration of 60 minutes. A similar break shall be applied 
in advance of each test. Immediately after the end of this break, the requirements 
of paragraph 3.2.2.3. of this appendix shall be applied. 
Upon request of the manufacturer, an additional warm-up procedure may be 
conducted in advance of the REESS adjustment to ensure similar starting 
conditions for the correction coefficient determination. If the manufacturer 
requests this additional warm-up procedure, the identical warm-up procedure shall 
be applied repeatedly within the test sequence. 
3.2.2.3. 
Test procedure 
3.2.2.3.1. The driver-selectable mode for the applicable WLTP test cycle shall be selected 
according to paragraph 3. of Appendix 6 to this annex. 
3.2.2.3.2.
 
 
For testing, the applicable WLTP test cycle according to paragraph 1.4.2. of this 
annex shall be driven. 
3.2.2.3.3. Unless stated otherwise in this appendix, the vehicle shall be tested according to 
the Type I test procedure described in Annex B6. 
3.2.2.3.4. To get a set of applicable WLTP test cycles that are required for the determination 
of the correction coefficients, the test can be followed by a number of consecutive 
sequences required according to paragraph 2.2. of this appendix consisting of 
paragraphs 3.2.2.2. and 3.2.2.3. of this appendix. 
4.0 
As an option for the manufacturer, it is allowed to apply ΔMCO2,j defined in 
paragraph 4.5. of Appendix 2 to Annex 6 with the following 
modification:  
η𝑎𝑙𝑡𝑒𝑟𝑛𝑎𝑡𝑜𝑟  is the efficiency of the alternator 
0.67 in case ∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝑝 is negative (corresponds to a discharge) 
1.00 in case ∆𝐸𝑅𝐸𝐸𝑆𝑆,𝑝 is positive (corresponds to a charge) 
 
4.1 
In this case, the corrected charge-sustaining CO2 mass emission defined in paragraphs 4.1.1.3., 
4.1.1.4. and 4.1.1.5. of this annex shall be replaced by ΔMCO2,j instead of KCO2,j × ECDC,CS,j. 
 
 



--- PAGE 496 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 496 of 762 
 
 
Annex B8 - Appendix 3 
Determination of REESS current and REESS voltage for NOVC-HEVs, OVC-
HEVs, PEVs, OVC-FCHVs and NOVC-FCHVs 
1.0 
Introduction 
1.1. 
This appendix defines the method and required instrumentation to determine the 
REESS current and the REESS voltage of NOVC-HEVs, OVC-HEVs, PEVs, OVC-
FCHVs  and NOVC-FCHVs. 
1.2. 
Measurement of REESS current and REESS voltage shall start at the same time as 
the test starts and shall end immediately after the vehicle has finished the test. 
1.3. 
The REESS current and the REESS voltage of each phase shall be determined. 
1.4. 
A list of the instrumentation used by the manufacturer to measure REESS voltage 
and current (including instrument manufacturer, model number, serial number, last 
calibration dates (where applicable)) during: 
 
(a) 
The Type I test according to paragraph 3 of this annex; 
 
(b) 
The procedure to determine the correction coefficients according to 
Appendix 2 of this annex (where applicable); 
 
(c) 
Any procedure which may have such requirements 
 
 
shall be provided to the Test Agency. 
2. 
REESS current 
REESS depletion is considered as a negative current. 
2.1. 
External REESS current measurement 
2.1.1. 
The REESS current(s) shall be measured during the tests using a clamp-on or closed 
type current transducer. The current measurement system shall fulfil the 
requirements specified in Table A8/1 of this annex. The current transducer(s) shall 
be capable of handling the peak currents at engine starts and temperature conditions 
at the point of measurement. 
In order to have an accurate measurement, zero adjustment and degaussing shall be 
performed before the test according to the instrument manufacturer's instructions.  
2.1.2. 
Current transducers shall be fitted to any of the REESS on one of the cables 
connected directly to the REESS and shall include the total REESS current. 
In case of shielded wires, appropriate methods shall be applied in accordance with 
the Test Agency. 
In order to easily measure the REESS current using external measuring equipment, 
the manufacturer should provide appropriate, safe and accessible connection points 
in the vehicle. If that is not feasible, the manufacturer is obliged to support the Test 



--- PAGE 497 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 497 of 762 
 
Agency in connecting a current transducer to one of the cables directly connected to 
the REESS in the manner described above in this paragraph. 
2.1.3. 
The current transducer output shall be sampled with a minimum frequency of 20 Hz. 
The measured current shall be integrated over time, yielding the measured value of 
Q, expressed in ampere-hours Ah. The integration may be done in the current 
measurement system. 
2.2. 
Vehicle on-board REESS current data 
As an alternative to paragraph 2.1. of this appendix, the manufacturer may use on-
board REESS current measurement data. The accuracy of these data shall be 
demonstrated to the Test Agency. 
3. 
REESS voltage 
During the tests described in paragraph 3. (this paragraph) and in Appendix 2 of this 
annex, the voltage shall be determined by the following options and applicable test 
event of each option is defined in Table A8.App3/1 
3.1. 
External REESS voltage measurement 
The REESS voltage shall be measured with the equipment and accuracy 
requirements specified in paragraph 1.1. of this annex. To measure the REESS 
voltage using external measuring equipment, the manufacturers shall support the 
Test Agency by providing REESS voltage measurement points and safety 
instructions. 
3.2. 
Nominal REESS voltage 
The nominal voltage of the REESS determined according to IEC 60050-482. 
3.3. 
Vehicle on-board REESS voltage data 
As an alternative to paragraphs 3.1. and 3.2. of this appendix, the manufacturer may 
use the on-board voltage measurement data. The accuracy of these data shall be 
demonstrated to the Test Agency. 
Table A8 App3/1 
Test events 
Para. 3.1. 
Para. 3.2. 
Para. 3.3. 
60V or more 
Less than 60V 
NOVC-HEV 
shall not 
to be used 
shall be used 
shall not 
to be used 
OVC-HEV CS condition 
NOVC-FCHV 
OVC-FCHV CS condition 



--- PAGE 498 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 498 of 762 
 
REESS energy change-
based correction procedure 
(Appendix 2) 
Break-Off 
Criterion 
calculation 
for 
CD-test 
(Annex 
B8, 
paragraph 
3.2.4.5.2.) 
OVC-HEV CD condition 
shall be 
used 
shall not to be 
used 
allowed to use 
allowed to 
use 
OVC-FCHV CD condition 
PEV 
 
 



--- PAGE 499 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 499 of 762 
 
 
Annex B8 - Appendix 4 
Preconditioning, soaking and REESS charging conditions of PEVs, OVC-
HEVs and OVC-FCHVs 
1.0 
This appendix describes the test procedure for REESS and combustion engine 
preconditioning in preparation for: 
 
(a) 
Electric range, charge-depleting and charge-sustaining measurements when 
testing OVC-HEVs and OVC-FCHVs; and 
 
(b) 
Electric range measurements as well as electric energy consumption 
measurements when testing PEVs. 
2.0 
OVC-HEV and OVC-FCHVs preconditioning and soaking 
2.1. 
Preconditioning and soaking when the test procedure starts with a charge-
sustaining test 
2.1.1. 
For preconditioning the combustion engine, the vehicle shall be driven over at least 
one applicable WLTP test cycle. During each driven preconditioning cycle, the 
charging balance of the REESS shall be determined. The preconditioning shall be 
stopped at the end of the applicable WLTP test cycle during which the break-off 
criterion is fulfilled according to paragraph 3.2.4.5. of this annex. 
2.1.2. 
As an alternative to paragraph 2.1.1. of this appendix, at the request of the 
manufacturer and upon approval of the Test Agency, the state of charge of the 
REESS for the charge-sustaining Type I test may be set according to the 
manufacturer’s recommendation in order to achieve a test under charge-sustaining 
operating condition. 
In such a case, a preconditioning procedure, such as that applicable to pure ICE 
vehicles as described in paragraph 2.6. of Annex B6, shall be applied. 
2.1.3. 
Soaking of the vehicle shall be performed according to paragraph 2.7. of 
Annex B6. 
2.2. 
Preconditioning and soaking when the test procedure starts with a charge-depleting 
test 
2.2.1. 
OVC-HEVs and OVC-FCHVs  shall be driven over at least one applicable WLTP 
test cycle. During each driven preconditioning cycle, the charging balance of the 
REESS shall be determined. The preconditioning shall be stopped at the end of the 
applicable WLTP test cycle during which the break-off criterion is fulfilled 
according to paragraph 3.2.4.5. of this annex. 
2.2.2. 
Soaking of the vehicle shall be performed according to paragraph 2.7. of 
Annex B6. Forced cooling down shall not be applied to vehicles preconditioned 
for the Type I test. During soak, the REESS shall be charged using the normal 
charging procedure as defined in paragraph 2.2.3. of this appendix. 



--- PAGE 500 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 500 of 762 
 
2.2.3. 
Application of a normal charge 
Normal charging is the transfer of electricity to an electrified vehicle with a power 
of less than or equal to 22 kW. 
Where there are several possible methods to perform a normal AC charge (e.g. 
cable, induction, etc.), the charging procedure via cable shall be used.  
Where there are several AC charging power levels available, the highest normal 
charging power shall be used. An AC charging power lower than the highest 
normal AC charging power may be selected if recommended by the manufacturer 
and by approval of the Test Agency. 
2.2.3.1. The REESS shall be charged at an ambient temperature as specified in 
paragraph 2.2.2.2. of Annex B6 with the on-board charger if fitted.  
In the following cases, a charger recommended by the manufacturer and using the 
charging pattern prescribed for normal charging shall be used if: 
 
(a) 
No on-board charger is fitted, or 
 
(b) 
The charging time exceeds the soaking time defined in paragraph 2.7. of 
Annex B6. 
 
The procedures in this paragraph exclude all types of special charges that could be 
automatically or manually initiated, e.g. equalization charges or servicing charges. 
The manufacturer shall declare that, during the test, a special charge procedure has 
not occurred. 
2.2.3.2. End-of-charge criterion 
The end-of-charge criterion is reached when the on-board or external instruments 
indicate that the REESS is fully charged. If the charging is performed during 
soaking and finished before the minimum required soaking time as defined in 
paragraph 2.7. of Annex B6, the vehicle shall stay connected to the grid at least 
until the minimum required soaking time is reached. 
3.0 
PEV preconditioning and soaking 
3.1. 
Initial charging of the REESS 
Initial charging of the REESS consists of discharging the REESS and applying a 
normal charge. 
3.1.1. 
Discharging the REESS 
The discharge procedure shall be performed according to the manufacturer’s 
recommendation. The manufacturer shall guarantee that the REESS is as fully 
depleted as is possible by the discharge procedure. 



--- PAGE 501 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 501 of 762 
 
3.1.2. 
Soaking and application of a normal charge 
Soaking of the vehicle shall be performed in accordance with paragraph 2.7. of 
Annex B6.  
During soak, the REESS shall be charged using the normal charging procedure as 
defined in paragraph 2.2.3. of this appendix. 
 
 



--- PAGE 502 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 502 of 762 
 
 
Annex B8 - Appendix 5 
Utility factors (UF) for OVC-HEVs and OVC-FCHVs* 
1.0 
For the calculation of a fractional utility factor UFj for the weighting of 
period j, the following equation shall be applied by using the coefficients from 
Table A8.App5/1. 
𝑈𝐹𝑗(𝑑𝑗) = 1 −𝑒𝑥𝑝{−(∑𝐶𝑖
𝑘
𝑖=1
× (𝑑𝑗
𝑑𝑛
)
𝑖
)} −∑𝑈𝐹𝑙
𝑗−1
𝑙=1
 
 
where: 
 
UFj 
utility factor for period j; 
 
dj 
measured distance driven at the end of period j, km; 
 
Ci 
ith coefficient (see Table A8.App5/1); 
 
dn 
normalized distance (see Table A8.App5/1), km; 
 
k 
number of terms and coefficients in the exponent; 
 
j 
number of period considered; 
 
i 
number of considered term/coefficient; 
 
∑
𝑈𝐹𝑙
𝑗−1
𝑙=1
 sum of calculated utility factors up to period (j-1). 
 
Table A8.App5/1 
Parameters for the determination of fractional UFs 
 
Parameter 
India 
 
dn 
400 km 
 
C1 
11.8 
 
C2 
-32.5 
 
C3 
89.5 
 
C4 
-134 
 
C5 
98.9 
 
C6 
-29.1 
 
C7 
NA 



--- PAGE 503 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 503 of 762 
 
 
C8 
NA 
 
C9 
NA 
 
C10 
NA 
 
UF may be  reviewed and if required India specific UF will be determined as 
per SAE J2841 procedure on actual PHEVs data and charging infrastructure. 
 
 



--- PAGE 504 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 504 of 762 
 
 
Annex B8 - Appendix 6 
Selection of driver-selectable modes 
 
1.0 
General requirement 
1.1. 
The manufacturer shall select the driver-selectable mode for the Type I test 
procedure according to paragraphs 2. to 4. inclusive of this appendix which 
enables the vehicle to follow the considered test cycle within the speed trace 
tolerances according to paragraph 2.6.8.3.1.2. of Annex B6. This shall apply 
to all vehicle systems with driver-selectable modes including those not solely 
specific to the transmission. 
1.2. 
The manufacturer shall provide evidence to the Test Agency concerning: 
 
(a) 
The availability of a predominant mode under the considered 
conditions; 
 
(b) 
The maximum speed of the considered vehicle; and if required: 
 
(c) 
The best and worst case mode identified by the evidence on the fuel 
consumption and, if applicable, on the CO2 mass emission/fuel 
consumption in all modes. See paragraph 2.6.6.3. of Annex B6; 
 
(d) 
The highest electric energy consuming mode; 
 
(e) 
The cycle energy demand (according to paragraph 5 of Annex B7 
where the target speed is replaced by the actual speed). 
1.3. 
Dedicated driver-selectable modes, such as "mountain mode" or "maintenance 
mode" which are not intended for normal daily operation but only for special 
limited purposes, shall not be considered. 
2.0 
OVC-HEVs and OVC-FCHVs equipped with a driver-selectable mode under 
charge-depleting operating condition 
For vehicles equipped with a driver-selectable mode, the mode for the charge-
depleting Type I test shall be selected according to the following conditions. 
The flow chart in Figure A8.App6/1 illustrates the mode selection according 
to this paragraph. 
2.1. 
If there is a predominant mode that enables the vehicle to follow the reference 
test cycle under charge-depleting operating condition, this mode shall be 
selected. 
2.2. 
If there is no predominant mode or if there is a predominant mode but this 
mode does not enable the vehicle to follow the reference test cycle under 
charge-depleting operating condition, the mode for the test shall be selected 
according to the following conditions: 



--- PAGE 505 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 505 of 762 
 
 
(a) 
If there is only one mode which allows the vehicle to follow the 
reference test cycle under charge-depleting operating conditions, 
this mode shall be selected; 
 
(b) 
If several modes are capable of following the reference test cycle 
under charge-depleting operating conditions and none of those 
modes is a configurable start mode, the worst case mode for electric 
energy consumption of those modes shall be selected; 
 
(c) 
If several modes are capable of following the reference test cycle 
under charge-depleting operating conditions and at least two of 
those modes are a configurable start mode, the worst case mode for 
electric energy consumption shall be selected from these 
configurable start modes. 
2.3. 
If there is no mode according to paragraph 2.1. and paragraph 2.2. of this 
appendix that enables the vehicle to follow the reference test cycle, the 
reference test cycle shall be modified according to paragraph 9 of Annex B1: 
 
(a) 
If there is a predominant mode which allows the vehicle to follow the 
modified reference test cycle under charge-depleting operating 
conditions, this mode shall be selected. 
 
(b) 
If there is no predominant mode but other modes which allow the 
vehicle to follow the modified reference test cycle under charge-
depleting operating condition, the worst case mode for electric energy 
consumption of those modes shall be selected. In the case that at least 
two or more configurable start modes, the worst case mode for 
electric energy consumption shall be selected from these 
configurable start modes; 
 
(c) 
If there is no mode which allows the vehicle to follow the modified 
reference test cycle under charge-depleting operating condition, the 
mode or modes with the highest cycle energy demand shall be 
identified and the worst case mode for electric energy consumption 
shall be selected. 
Figure A8.App6/1a and Figure A8.App6/1b 
Selection of driver-selectable mode for OVC-HEVs and OVC-FCHVs under charge-
depleting operating condition 



--- PAGE 506 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 506 of 762 
 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 507 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 507 of 762 
 
3.0 
OVC-HEVs, NOVC-HEVs, OVC-FCHVs and NOVC-FCHVs equipped with 
a driver- selectable mode under charge-sustaining operating condition 
For vehicles equipped with a driver-selectable mode, the mode for the charge-
sustaining Type I test shall be selected according to the following conditions. 
The flow chart in Figure A8.App6/2 illustrates the mode selection according 
to this paragraph. 
3.1. 
If there is a predominant mode that enables the vehicle to follow the reference 
test cycle under charge-sustaining operating condition, this mode shall be 
selected. 
3.2. 
If there is no predominant mode or if there is a predominant mode but this 
mode does not enable the vehicle to follow the reference test cycle under 
charge-sustaining operating condition, the mode for the test shall be selected 
according to the following conditions: 
 
(a) 
If there is only one mode which allows the vehicle to follow the 
reference test cycle under charge-sustaining operating conditions, 
this mode shall be selected; 
 
(b) 
If several modes are capable of following the reference test cycle 
under charge-sustaining operating conditions and none of those 
modes is a configurable start mode, the worst case mode for CO2 
emissions and fuel consumption shall be selected; 
 
(c) 
If several modes are capable of following the reference test cycle 
under charge-sustaining operating conditions and at least two or more 
of those modes are a configurable start mode, the worst case mode 
for CO2 emissions and fuel consumption shall be selected. 
3.3. 
If there is no mode according to paragraph 3.1. and paragraph 3.2. of this 
appendix that enables the vehicle to follow the reference test cycle, the 
reference test cycle shall be modified according to paragraph 9. of Annex B1: 
 
(a) 
If there is a predominant mode which allows the vehicle to follow the 
modified reference test cycle under charge-sustaining operating 
condition, this mode shall be selected. 
 
(b) 
 
If there is no predominant mode but other modes which allow the 
vehicle to follow the modified reference test cycle under charge-
sustaining operating condition, the worst case mode for CO2 
emissions and fuel consumption of these modes shall be selected. 



--- PAGE 508 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 508 of 762 
 
 
(c) 
If there is no mode which allows the vehicle to follow the modified 
reference test cycle under charge-sustaining operating condition, the 
mode or modes with the highest cycle energy demand shall be 
identified and the worst case mode for CO2 emissions and fuel 
consumption of those modes shall be selected. In the case that at least 
two or more of these modes are a configurable start mode, the worst 
case mode for CO2 emissions and fuel consumption shall be selected 
from these modes. 
Figure A8.App6/2a and Figure A8.App6/2b 
Selection of a driver-selectable mode for OVC-HEVs, NOVC-HEVs , OVC-FCHVs 
and NOVC- FCHVs under charge-sustaining operating condition 
 
 



--- PAGE 509 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 509 of 762 
 
4.0 
PEVs equipped with a driver-selectable mode 
For vehicles equipped with a driver-selectable mode, the mode for the test 
shall be selected according to the following conditions. 
The flow chart in Figure A8.App6/3 illustrates the mode selection according 
to this paragraph. 
4.1. 
If there is a predominant mode that enables the vehicle to follow the 
reference test cycle, this mode shall be selected. 
4.2. 
If there is no predominant mode or if there is a predominant mode but this 
mode does not enable the vehicle to follow the reference test cycle, the mode 
for the test shall be selected according to the following conditions: 
 
(a) 
If there is only one mode which allows the vehicle to follow the 
reference test cycle, this mode shall be selected; 
 
(b) 
If several modes are capable of following the reference test cycle and 
none of those modes is a configurable start mode, the worst case 
mode for electric energy consumption of those modes shall be 
selected; 
 
(c) 
If several modes are capable of following the reference test cycle and 
at least two of those modes are a configurable start mode, the worst 
case mode for electric energy consumptionshall be selected from 
these configurable start modes. 
4.3. 
If there is no mode according to paragraph 4.1. and paragraph 4.2. of this 
appendix that enables the vehicle to follow the reference test cycle, the 
reference test cycle shall be modified according to paragraph 9. of Annex B1. 
The resulting test cycle shall be named as the applicable WLTP test cycle: 
 
(a) 
If there is a predominant mode which allows the vehicle to follow 
the modified reference test cycle, this mode shall be selected; 
 
(b) 
If there is no predominant mode but other modes which allow the 
vehicle to follow the modified reference test cycle, worst case mode 
for electric energy consumption of those modes shall be selected. In 
the case that at least two or more configurable start modes, the worst 
case mode for electric energy consumption shall be selected from 
these configurable start modes; 
 
(c) 
If there is no mode which allows the vehicle to follow the modified 
reference test cycle, the mode or modes with the highest cycle energy 
demand shall be identified and the worst case mode for electric 
energy consumption shall be selected. 
 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 510 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 510 of 762 
 
Figure A8.App6/3a and Figure A8.App6/3b 
Selection of the driver-selectable mode for PEVs 
 
 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 511 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 511 of 762 
 
 
Annex B8 - Appendix 7 
Fuel consumption measurement of compressed hydrogen fuel cell 
hybrid vehicles 
1.0 
General requirements 
 
Fuel consumption shall be measured using the gravimetric method in 
accordance with paragraph 2. of this appendix. 
At the request of the manufacturer and with approval of the Test Agency, fuel 
consumption may be measured using either the pressure method or the flow 
method. In this case, the manufacturer shall provide technical evidence that 
the method yields equivalent results. The pressure and flow methods are 
described in ISO 23828. 
2.0 
Gravimetric method 
Fuel consumption shall be calculated by measuring the mass of the fuel tank 
before and after the test. 
2.1. 
Equipment and setting 
2.1.1. 
An example of the instrumentation is shown in Figure A8.App7/1. One or 
more off-vehicle tanks shall be used to measure the fuel consumption. The 
off-vehicle tank(s) shall be connected to the vehicle fuel line between the 
original fuel tank and the fuel cell system. 
2.1.2. 
For preconditioning, the originally installed tank or an external source of 
hydrogen may be used. 
2.1.3. 
The refuelling pressure shall be adjusted to the manufacturer’s recommended 
value. 
2.1.4. 
Difference of the gas supply pressures in lines shall be minimized when the 
lines are switched. 
In the case that influence of pressure difference is expected, the manufacturer 
and the Test Agency shall agree whether correction is necessary or not. 
2.1.5. 
Balance 
2.1.5.1. 
The balance used for fuel consumption measurement shall meet the 
specification of Table A8.App7/1. 
 
 



--- PAGE 512 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 512 of 762 
 
 
Table A8.App7/1 
Analytical balance verification criteria 
 
Measurement 
system 
Resolution 
Precision 
 
Balance 
0.1 g maximum 
±0.02 maximum(a) 
 
(a) Fuel consumption (REESS charge balance = 0) during the test, in mass, 
standard deviation 
 
2.1.5.2. 
The balance shall be calibrated in accordance with the specifications provided 
by the balance manufacturer or at least as often as specified in 
Table A8.App7/2. 
 
Table A8.App7/2 
Instrument calibration intervals 
 
Instrument checks 
Interval 
 
Precision 
Yearly and at major maintenance 
2.1.5.3. 
Appropriate means for reducing the effects of vibration and convection, such 
as a damping table or a wind barrier, shall be provided. 
Figure A8.App7/1 
Example of instrumentation 
 
where: 



--- PAGE 513 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 513 of 762 
 
 
1 is the external fuel supply for preconditioning 
 
2 is the pressure regulator 
 
3 is the original tank 
 
4 is the fuel cell system 
 
5 is the balance 
 
6 is/are off-vehicle tank(s) for fuel consumption measurement 
2.2. 
Test procedure 
2.2.1 
The mass of the off-vehicle tank shall be measured before the test. 
2.2.2. 
The off-vehicle tank shall be connected to the vehicle fuel line as shown in 
Figure A8.App7/1. 
2.2.3. 
The test shall be conducted by fuelling from the off-vehicle tank. 
2.2.4. 
The off-vehicle tank shall be removed from the line. 
2.2.5. 
The mass of the tank and fuel consumed after the test shall be measured. 
2.2.5.1. 
At the request of the manufacturer and with approval of the Test Agency, the 
change in weight of the hydrogen in the auxiliary line between points 2 and 4 
in Figure A8.App7/1 due to changes in temperature and pressure may be taken 
into consideration. 
2.2.6. 
The non-balanced charge-sustaining fuel consumption 𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑛𝑏 from the 
measured mass before and after the test shall be calculated using the following 
equation: 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑛𝑏= 𝑔1 −𝑔2
𝑑
× 100 
 
where: 
 
𝐹𝐶𝐶𝑆,𝑛𝑏 
is the non-balanced charge-sustaining fuel consumption measured 
during the test, kg/100 km; 
 
g1 
is the mass of the tank at the start of the test, kg; 
 
g2 
is the mass of the tank at the end of the test, kg; 
 
d 
is the distance driven during the test, km. 
 
 



--- PAGE 514 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 514 of 762 
 
 
Annex B8 - Appendix 8 
Calculation of additional values required for checking the Conformity of 
Production of electric energy consumption of PEVs and OVC-HEVs 
 
For the conformity of production, specific values are required to be provided, the 
calculation of which is described in this appendix. 
1.0 
Calculation of electric energy consumption values of PEVs for conformity of 
production 
1.1. 
The following value shall be declared and used for verifying the conformity of 
production with respect to the electric energy consumption of PEVs: 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶−𝑖,𝐶𝑂𝑃= 𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝑓𝑖𝑟𝑠𝑡,𝑖× 𝐴𝐹𝐸𝐶,𝑖 
 
where: 
 
i 
is representing – in the case the interpolation method is applied 
– the index L for vehicle L and the index H for vehicle H. In the 
case the interpolation method is not applied, index i is 
representing the vehicle tested and paragraph 1.2. of this 
appendix shall be omitted. 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶−𝑖,𝐶𝑂𝑃 
is the electric energy consumption of vehicle i based on the 
REESS depletion of the first applicable WLTC test cycle 
provided for the verification during the conformity of 
production test procedure; 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝑓𝑖𝑟𝑠𝑡,𝑖 
is the electric energy consumption of vehicle i based on the 
REESS depletion of the first applicable WLTC test cycle 
according to paragraph 4.3. of this annex, in Wh/km; 
 
𝐴𝐹𝐸𝐶,𝑖 
is the adjustment factor of vehicle i which compensates the 
difference between the charge-depleting electric energy 
consumption value declared after having performed the Type I 
test procedure during type approval and the measured test result 
determined during the conformity of production procedure 
 
and 
 
 
𝐴𝐹𝐸𝐶,𝑖= 𝐸𝐶𝑊𝐿𝑇𝐶,𝑑𝑒𝑐𝑙𝑎𝑟𝑒𝑑,𝑖
𝐸𝐶𝑊𝐿𝑇𝐶,𝑖
 
 
where: 
 
𝐸𝐶𝑊𝐿𝑇𝐶,𝑑𝑒𝑐𝑙𝑎𝑟𝑒𝑑,𝑖 
is the declared electric energy consumption of vehicle i for 
PEVs according to paragraph 1.2.3. of Annex B6. 
 
𝐸𝐶𝑊𝐿𝑇𝐶,𝑖 
is the measured electric energy consumption of vehicle i 
according to paragraph 4.3.4.2. of this annex. 



--- PAGE 515 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 515 of 762 
 
1.1.1. 
In the case that the interpolation method is applied, the values declared and used 
for verifying the conformity of production with respect to the electric energy 
consumption of vehicle H and vehicle L shall be the input values for the 
interpolation of the individual electric energy consumption values according to 
paragraph 1.2. of this appendix. 
1.2. 
Interpolation of the individual electric energy consumption value of PEVs  
This paragraph shall only be applied in the case the interpolation method is applied. 
The interpolated electric energy consumption value shall be declared and used for 
verifying the conformity of production with respect to the electric energy 
consumption of the individual vehicle: 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶−𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝐶𝑂𝑃= 𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶−𝐿,𝐶𝑂𝑃+ 𝐾𝑖𝑛𝑑× (𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶−𝐻,𝐶𝑂𝑃−𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶−𝐿,𝐶𝑂𝑃) 
 
where: 
 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶−𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝐶𝑂𝑃 
is the electric energy consumption of an individual vehicle for 
the conformity of production, Wh/km; 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶−𝐿,𝐶𝑂𝑃 
is the electric energy consumption of vehicle L for the 
conformity of production determined according to paragraph 
1.1. of this appendix, Wh/km; 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶−𝐻,𝐶𝑂𝑃 
is the electric energy consumption of vehicle H for the 
conformity of production determined according to paragraph 
1.1. of this appendix, Wh/km; 
 
𝐾𝑖𝑛𝑑 
is the interpolation coefficient for the considered individual 
vehicle for the applicable WLTP test cycle, according to 
paragraph 4.5.3. of this annex. 
2.0 
Calculation of electric energy consumption values of OVC-HEVs for conformity 
of production 
This paragraph shall only be applied if there is no engine start in the first cycle of 
the charge-depleting Type I test during Type Approval. In the case there is an 
engine start, this paragraph shall be omitted. 
2.1. 
The following value shall be declared and used for verifying the conformity of 
production with respect to electric energy consumption value of OVC-HEVs: 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝐷−𝑖,𝐶𝑂𝑃= 𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝐷,𝑓𝑖𝑟𝑠𝑡,𝑖× 𝐴𝐹𝐸𝐶,𝐴𝐶,𝐶𝐷,𝑖 
 
where: 
 
i 
is representing – in the case the interpolation method is applied 
– the index L for vehicle L and the index H for vehicle H. In the 
case the interpolation method is not applied, index i is 
representing the vehicle tested and paragraph 2.2. of this 
appendix shall be omitted. 



--- PAGE 516 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 516 of 762 
 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝐷−𝑖,𝐶𝑂𝑃 
is the charge-depleting electric energy consumption based on 
the REESS depletion of the first applicable WLTC test cycle of 
the charge-depleting Type I test provided for the verification 
during the conformity of production test procedure; 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶,𝐶𝐷,𝑓𝑖𝑟𝑠𝑡,𝑖 
is the charge-depleting electric energy consumption of vehicle i 
based on the REESS depletion of the first applicable WLTC test 
cycle of the charge-depleting Type I test according to 
paragraph 4.3. of this annex, Wh/km; 
 
𝐴𝐹𝐸𝐶,𝐴𝐶,𝐶𝐷,𝑖 
is the adjustment factor of vehicle i for the charge-depleting 
electric energy consumption which compensates the difference 
between the value declared after having performed the Type I 
test procedure during type approval and the measured test result 
determined during the conformity of production procedure. 
 
 
𝐴𝐹𝐸𝐶,𝐴𝐶,𝐶𝐷,𝑖= 𝐸𝐶𝐴𝐶,𝐶𝐷,𝑑𝑒𝑐𝑙𝑎𝑟𝑒𝑑,𝑖
𝐸𝐶𝐴𝐶,𝐶𝐷,𝑖
 
 
where 
 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐴𝐶,𝐶𝐷,𝑑𝑒𝑐𝑙𝑎𝑟𝑒𝑑,𝑖 is the declared charge-depleting electric energy consumption of 
vehicle i of the charge-depleting Type I test according to 
paragraph 1.2.3. of Annex B6. 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐴𝐶,𝐶𝐷,𝑖 
is the measured charge-depleting electric energy consumption 
of vehicle i of the charge-depleting Type I test according to 
paragraph 4.3.1. of this annex. 
2.1.1. 
In the case that the interpolation method is applied, the values declared and used 
for verifying the conformity of production with respect to the electric energy 
consumption of vehicle H and vehicle L shall be the input values for the 
interpolation of the individual electric energy consumption values according to 
paragraph 2.2. of this appendix. 
2.2. 
Interpolation of the individual charge-depleting electric energy consumption value  
This paragraph shall only be applied in the case the interpolation method is applied. 
The interpolated electric energy consumption value shall be declared and used for 
verifying the conformity of production with respect to the electric energy 
consumption value of the individual vehicle: 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶−𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝐶𝐷,𝐶𝑂𝑃= 𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶−𝐿,𝐶𝐷,𝐶𝑂𝑃+ 𝐾𝑖𝑛𝑑× (𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶−𝐻,𝐶𝐷,𝐶𝑂𝑃−𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶−𝐿,𝐶𝐷,𝐶𝑂𝑃) 
 
where: 
 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶−𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝐶𝐷,𝐶𝑂𝑃 
is the charge-depleting electric energy consumption of an 
individual vehicle for the conformity of production, Wh/km; 



--- PAGE 517 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 517 of 762 
 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶−𝐿,𝐶𝐷,𝐶𝑂𝑃 
is the charge-depleting electric energy consumption of 
vehicle L for the conformity of production determined 
according to paragraph 2.1. of this appendix, Wh/km; 
 
𝐸𝐶𝐷𝐶−𝐻,𝐶𝐷,𝐶𝑂𝑃 
is the charge-depleting electric energy consumption of 
vehicle H for the conformity of production determined 
according to paragraph 2.1. of this appendix, Wh/km; 
 
𝐾𝑖𝑛𝑑 
is the interpolation coefficient for the considered individual 
vehicle for the applicable WLTP test cycle, according to 
paragraph 4.5.3. of this annex. 
 
 



--- PAGE 518 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 518 of 762 
 
Annex B9 – Reserved 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 519 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 519 of 762 
 
 
Annexes Part C 
Annex C1- Type II Test and Free Acceleration Smoke Test 
1.0 
Introduction 
 
This Annex describes the procedure for the Type II test defined in clause 6.4 of 
this regulation and free acceleration smoke measurement applicable for 
compression ignition Engines only 
2.0 
CONDITIONS OF MEASUREMENT FOR IDLE SPEED 
2.1 
The fuel shall be the appropriate reference fuel. 
2.2 
During the test, the environmental temperature shall be between 293 and 303 K 
(20 and 30°C). The engine shall be warmed up until all temperatures of cooling 
and lubrication means  and  the  pressure  of  lubrication  means  have  reached 
equilibrium. 
2.2.1 
Vehicles that are fuelled either with gasoline or with LPG or NG/biomethane 
shall be tested with the reference fuel(s) used for the Type I Test. 
2.3 
In the case of vehicles with manually-operated or semi-automatic-shift 
gearboxes, the test shall be carried out with the gear lever in the "neutral" position 
and with the clutch engaged. 
2.4 
In the case of vehicles with automatic-shift gearboxes, the test shall be carried 
out with the gear selector in either the "neutral" or the "parking" position. 
2.5 
Components for Adjusting the Idling Speed 
2.5.1 
Definition 
 
For the purposes of this Part, "components for adjusting the idling speed" means 
controls for changing the idling conditions of the engine which may be easily 
operated  by  a  mechanic  using  only  the  tools  described  in  clause  2.5.1.1 of 
this Annex. In particular, devices for calibrating fuel and air flows are not 
considered as adjustment components if their setting requires the removal  of the  
set-stops,  an operation   which   cannot   normally   be   performed   except   by  
a  professional mechanic. 
2.5.1.1 
Tools which may be used to control components for adjusting the idling speed: 
screwdrivers (ordinary or cross-headed), spanners (ring, open-end or adjustable), 
pliers, allen keys. 
2.5.2 
Determination of Measurement Points 
2.5.2.1 
A  measurement  at  the  setting  in  accordance  with  the  conditions  fixed  by  
the manufacturer is performed first; 
2.5.2.2 
For each adjustment component with a continuous variation, a sufficient number 



--- PAGE 520 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 520 of 762 
 
of characteristic positions shall be determined. 
2.5.2.3 
The measurement of the gaseous pollutant of  exhaust  gases  described in Gazette 
Notification  shall  be carried out for all the possible positions of  the  adjustment  
components,  but  for components with a continuous variation  only  the  positions  
defined  in  clause 2.5.2.2 of this Annex shall be adopted. 
2.5.2.4 
The  Type  II  Test  shall  be  considered  satisfactory  if one  or  both  of  the  two 
following conditions is met: 
2.5.2.4.1 None of  the  values  measured  in  accordance  with  clause  2.5.2.3 of this Annex 
exceeds the limit values; 
2.5.2.4.2 The maximum content obtained by continuously varying one of the adjustment 
components while the other components are kept stable does not exceed the limit 
value, this condition being met for the various combinations of   adjustment 
components other than the one which was varied continuously. 
2.5.2.5 
The possible positions of the adjustment components shall be limited: 
2.5.2.5.1 On the one hand, by the larger of the following two values: the lowest idling 
speed which the engine can reach; the speed recommended by the  manufacturer,  
minus  100 revolutions per minute; 
2.5.2.5.2 On the other hand, by the smallest of the following three values: 
2.5.2.5.3 The  highest  speed  the  engine  can  attain  by  activation  of  the  idling  speed 
components; 
2.5.2.5.4 The speed recommended by the manufacturer, plus 250 revolutions per minute; 
2.5.2.5.5 The cut-in speed of automatic clutches. 
2.5.2.5.6 In addition, settings incompatible with correct running of the engine shall not be 
adopted as measurement settings. In particular, when the engine is equipped with 
several carburettors all the carburettors shall have the same setting. 
3.0 
SAMPLING OF GASES 
3.1 
The sampling probe shall be inserted  into  the  exhaust  pipe  to  a  depth  of  at  
least 300 mm into the pipe connecting the exhaust with the sampling bag and as 
close as possible to the exhaust. 
3.2 
The concentration in CO (CCO) and CO2 (CCO2) shall be determined from the 
measuring instrument readings or recordings by use  of  appropriate  calibration 
curves. 
3.3 
The corrected concentration for carbon monoxide regarding four-stroke engines 
is: 



--- PAGE 521 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 521 of 762 
 
 
 
3.4 
The   concentration   in   CCO  (see   clause   3.2.of this Annex)   measured  
according   to   the formula contained in clause 3.3. of this Annex, need not be 
corrected if the total  of  the concentrations measured (CCO + CCO2) is for four-
stroke engines at least: 
 
(a) 
For gasoline 15% 
 
(b) 
For LPG 13.5% 
 
(c) 
For NG/biomethane 11.5% 
4.0 
FREE ACCELERATION SMOKE TEST 
4.1 
This test is applicable for vehicles equipped with compression-ignition engines 
only. 
4.2 
The free acceleration smoke test shall be  considered  satisfactory  if the  values  
measured  in  accordance  with Appendix 6 of Chapter 1 of AIS-137 (Part 5)  
meets limit values defined in Gazette Notification. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 522 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 522 of 762 
 
 
Annex C2 
Type III Test Verifying Emission of Crankcase Gases 
1.0 
INTRODUCTION 
 
This Annex describes the procedure for the Type III Test. 
2.0 
GENERAL PROVISIONS 
2.1 
The Type III Test shall be carried out on a vehicle with positive- ignition 
engine, which has been, subjected to the Type I and the Type II Test, as 
applicable. 
2.2 
The engines tested shall include leak-proof engines other than  those so 
designed that even a slight leak may cause unacceptable operating faults (such 
as flat-twin engines). 
3.0 
TEST CONDITIONS 
3.1 
Idling shall be regulated in conformity with the manufacturer's 
recommendations. 
3.2 
The measurement shall be performed in the following three sets of conditions 
of engine operation: 
 
Condition 
Number 
Vehicle speed (km/h) 
 
1 
Idling 
 
2 
50 ±2 (in 3rd gear or 
 
3 
50 ±2 (in 3rd gear or "drive") 
 
Condition 
Number 
Power absorbed by the brake 
 
1 
Nil 
 
2 
That corresponding to the setting for Type I test at 50 
km/h 
 
3 
That for conditions No. 2, multiplied by a factor of 1.7 
4.0 
TEST METHOD 
4.1 
For the operation conditions as listed in clause 3.2 of this Annex, reliable 
function of the crankcase ventilation system shall be checked. 
5.0 
METHOD OF VERIFICATION OF THE CRANKCASE VENTILATION 
SYSTEM 
5.1 
The engine's apertures shall be left as found. 



--- PAGE 523 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 523 of 762 
 
5.2 
The pressure in the crankcase shall be measured at an appropriate location. It 
shall be measured at the dip-stick hole with an inclined-tube manometer 
5.3 
The vehicle shall be deemed satisfactory  if,  in  every  condition  of  
measurement defined in clause 3.2  of this Annex, the pressure measured in the 
crankcase does not exceed the atmospheric pressure prevailing at the time of 
measurement. 
5.4 
For the test by the method described above, the pressure in the intake manifold 
shall be measured to within ±1 kPa. 
5.5 
The vehicle speed as indicated at the dynamometer shall be measured to within 
±2 km/ h. 
5.6 
The pressure measured in the crankcase shall be measured to within ±0.01 kPa 
5.7 
If in one of the conditions of measurement defined in clause 3.2 of this Annex, 
the pressure measured in the crankcase exceeds the atmospheric pressure, an 
additional test as defined in clause 6 below shall be performed if so requested 
by the manufacturer. 
6.0 
ADDITIONAL TEST METHOD 
6.1 
The engine's apertures shall be left as found. 
6.2 
A flexible bag impervious to crankcase gases and having a capacity of 
approximately five litres shall be connected to the dipstick hole. The bag shall 
be empty before each measurement. 
6.3 
The bag shall be closed before each measurement. It shall be opened to the 
crankcase for 5 minutes for each condition of measurement prescribed in clause 
3.2 of this Annex. 
6.4 
The vehicle shall be deemed satisfactory if, in every condition of measurement 
defined in clause 3.2 of this Annex,  no visible inflation of the bag occurs. 
6.5 
Remark 
6.5.1 
If the structural layout of  the engine is such that the test cannot be performed 
by the methods described in clauses 6.1  to  6.4  of this Annex,  the  
measurements  shall be effected by that method modified as follows: 
6.5.2 
Before the test, all apertures other than that required for the recovery of the 
gases shall be closed; 
6.5.3 
The bag shall be placed on a suitable take-off  which  does  not  introduce  any 
additional loss of pressure and is installed on the recycling circuit of the  device 
directly at the engine-connection aperture ( See diagram below). 
 
Type III Test 



--- PAGE 524 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 524 of 762 
 
 
 
Annex C3: Type IV Test 
Determination of evaporative emissions from vehicles fuelled with petrol 
Type IV Test Procedures and Test Conditions  
1.0 
Introduction 
 
This annex provides the method to determine the levels of evaporative 
emission from light-duty vehicles in a repeatable and reproducible manner 
designed to be representative of real world vehicle operation. 
 
This Annex applies to vehicles of categories M and N, both having a GVW not 
exceeding 3,500 kg, with engines fuelled with petrol . Mono-fuel gas vehicles 
are be excluded from the requirement of this regulation. 
2.0 
Technical requirements 
2.1 
The procedure includes the evaporative emissions test and two additional tests, 
one for the ageing of carbon canisters, as described in paragraph 5.1. of this 
annex, and one for the permeability of the fuel tank system, as described in 
paragraph 5.2. of this annex. The evaporative emissions test (Figure C3/4) 
determines hydrocarbon evaporative emissions as a consequence of diurnal 
temperature fluctuations and hot soaks during parking. 



--- PAGE 525 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 525 of 762 
 
2.2 
In the case that the fuel system contains more than one carbon canister, all 
references to the term "carbon canister" in this annex will apply to each carbon 
canister. 
3.0 
Vehicle 
 
The vehicle shall be in good mechanical condition and have been run-in and 
driven at least 3,000 km before the test. For the purpose of the determination 
of evaporative emissions, the mileage and the age of the vehicle used for 
certification shall be recorded. The evaporative emission control system shall 
be connected and functioning correctly during the run-in period. The aged 
carbon canister shall not be installed during the run-in period. 
 
A carbon canister aged according to the procedure described in paragraphs 5.1. 
to 5.1.3.1.3. inclusive of this annex shall not be installed until the start of the 
fuel drain and refill procedure specified in paragraph 6.5.1. of this annex. 
4.0 
Test equipment, calibration requirements and intervals 
 
Unless stated otherwise in this paragraph, equipment used for testing shall be 
calibrated before its initial use and at appropriate service intervals thereafter. 
An appropriate service interval shall be either equipment manufacturer 
recommendation or according to good engineering practice. 
4.1 
Chassis dynamometer 
 
The chassis dynamometer shall meet the requirements of paragraphs 2. to 2.4.2. 
inclusive of Annex B5. 
4.2 
Evaporative emission measurement enclosure 
 
The evaporative emission measurement enclosure shall be a gas-tight 
rectangular measuring chamber able to contain the vehicle under test. The 
vehicle shall be accessible from all sides and the enclosure when sealed shall 
be gas-tight in accordance with paragraph 4.2.3.3. of this annex. The inner 
surface of the enclosure shall be impermeable and non-reactive to 
hydrocarbons. The temperature conditioning system shall be capable of 
controlling the internal enclosure air temperature to follow the prescribed 
temperature versus time profile throughout the test, and an average tolerance 
of 1 °C over the duration of the test. 
 
The control system shall be tuned to provide a smooth temperature pattern that 
has a minimum of overshoot, hunting, and instability about the desired long-
term ambient temperature profile. Interior surface temperatures shall not be 
less than 5 °C nor more than 55 °C at any time during the diurnal emission test. 
 
Wall design shall be such as to promote good dissipation of heat. Interior 
surface temperatures shall not be below 20 °C, nor above 52 °C for the duration 
of the hot soak rest. 



--- PAGE 526 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 526 of 762 
 
 
To accommodate the volume changes due to enclosure temperature changes, 
either a variable-volume or fixed-volume enclosure may be used. 
4.2.1 
Variable-volume enclosure 
 
The variable-volume enclosure expands and contracts in response to the 
temperature change of the air mass in the enclosure. Two potential means of 
accommodating the internal volume changes are movable panel(s), or a 
bellows design, in which an impermeable bag or bags inside the enclosure 
expand(s) and contracts(s) in response to internal pressure changes by 
exchanging air from outside the enclosure. Any design for volume 
accommodation shall maintain the integrity of the enclosure as specified in 
paragraph 4.2.3. of this annex over the specified temperature range. 
 
Any method of volume accommodation shall limit the differential between the 
enclosure internal pressure and the barometric pressure to a maximum value of 
0.5 kPa. 
 
The enclosure shall be capable of latching to a fixed volume. A variable 
volume enclosure shall be capable of accommodating a +7 per cent change 
from its "nominal volume" (see paragraph 4.2.3.1.1. of this annex), taking into 
account temperature and barometric pressure variation during testing. 
4.2.2 
Fixed-volume enclosure 
 
The fixed-volume enclosure shall be constructed with rigid panels that 
maintain a fixed enclosure volume, and meet the requirements below. 
4.2.2.1 
The enclosure shall be equipped with an outlet flow stream that withdraws air 
at a low, constant rate from the enclosure throughout the test. An inlet flow 
stream may provide make-up air to balance the outgoing flow with incoming 
ambient air. Inlet air shall be filtered with activated carbon to provide a 
relatively constant hydrocarbon level. Any method of volume accommodation 
shall maintain the differential between the enclosure internal pressure and the 
barometric pressure between 0 and -0.5 kPa. 
4.2.2.2 
The equipment shall be capable of measuring the mass of hydrocarbon in the 
inlet and outlet flow streams with a resolution of 0.01 gram. A bag sampling 
system may be used to collect a proportional sample of the air withdrawn from 
and admitted to the enclosure. Alternatively, the inlet and outlet flow streams 
may be continuously analysed using an on-line FID analyser and integrated 
with the flow measurements to provide a continuous record of the mass 
hydrocarbon removal. 
4.2.3 
Calibration of the enclosure 
4.2.3.1 
Initial determination of internal volume of the enclosure 
4.2.3.1.1 
Before its initial use, the internal volume of the chamber shall be determined 
as follows: 



--- PAGE 527 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 527 of 762 
 
 
The internal dimensions of the chamber are carefully measured, allowing for 
any irregularities such as bracing struts. The internal volume of the chamber is 
determined from these measurements. 
 
For variable-volume enclosures, the enclosure shall be latched to a fixed 
volume when the enclosure is held at an ambient temperature of 30 °C or at the 
choice of the manufacturer 29 °C. This nominal volume shall be repeatable 
within 0.5 per cent of the reported value. 
4.2.3.1.2 
The net internal volume is determined by subtracting 1.42 m3 from the internal 
volume of the chamber. Alternatively the volume of the test vehicle with the 
luggage compartment and windows open may be used instead of the 1.42 m3. 
4.2.3.1.3 
The chamber shall be checked as in paragraph 4.2.3.3. of this annex. If the 
propane mass does not correspond to the injected mass to within 2 per cent, 
then corrective action is required. 
4.2.3.2 
Determination of chamber background emissions 
 
This operation determines that the chamber does not contain any materials that 
emit significant amounts of hydrocarbons. The check shall be carried out at the 
enclosure's introduction to service, after any operations in the enclosure which 
may affect background emissions and at a frequency of at least once per year. 
4.2.3.2.1 
Variable-volume enclosures may be operated in either latched or unlatched 
volume configuration, as described in paragraph 4.2.3.1.1. of this annex, 
ambient temperatures shall be maintained at 35 °C  2 °C, or at the choice of 
the manufacturer 36 °C  2 °C, throughout the 4-hour period mentioned below. 
4.2.3.2.2 
Fixed volume enclosures shall be operated with the inlet and outlet flow 
streams closed. Ambient temperatures shall be maintained at 35 °C  2 °C, or 
at the choice of the manufacturer 36 °C  2 °C, throughout the 4-hour period 
mentioned below. 
4.2.3.2.3 
The enclosure may be sealed and the mixing fan operated for a period of up 
to 12 hours before the 4-hour background sampling period begins. 
4.2.3.2.4 
The analyser (if required) shall be calibrated, then zeroed and spanned. 
4.2.3.2.5 
The enclosure shall be purged until a stable hydrocarbon reading is obtained, 
and the mixing fan turned on if not already on. 
4.2.3.2.6 
The chamber is then sealed and the background hydrocarbon concentration, 
temperature and barometric pressure are measured. These are the initial 
readings CHCi, Pi, Ti used in the enclosure background calculation. 
4.2.3.2.7 
The enclosure is allowed to stand undisturbed with the mixing fan on for a 
period of four hours. 



--- PAGE 528 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 528 of 762 
 
4.2.3.2.8 
At the end of this time the same analyser is used to measure the hydrocarbon 
concentration in the chamber. The temperature and the barometric pressure are 
also measured. These are the final readings CHCf, Pf, Tf. 
4.2.3.2.9 
The change in mass of hydrocarbons in the enclosure shall be calculated over 
the time of the test in accordance with paragraph 4.2.3.4. of this annex and shall 
not exceed 0.05 g. 
4.2.3.3 
Calibration and hydrocarbon retention test of the chamber 
 
The calibration and hydrocarbon retention test in the chamber provides a check 
on the calculated volume in paragraph 4.2.3.1. of this annex and also measures 
any leak rate. The enclosure leak rate shall be determined at the enclosure's 
introduction to service, after any operations in the enclosure which may affect 
the integrity of the enclosure, and at least monthly thereafter. If six consecutive 
monthly retention checks are successfully completed without corrective action, 
the enclosure leak rate may be determined quarterly thereafter as long as no 
corrective action is required. 
4.2.3.3.1 
The enclosure shall be purged until a stable hydrocarbon concentration is 
reached. The mixing fan is turned on, if not already switched on. The 
hydrocarbon analyser is zeroed, calibrated if required, and spanned. 
4.2.3.3.2 
On variable-volume enclosures, the enclosure shall be latched to the nominal 
volume position. On fixed-volume enclosures the outlet and inlet flow streams 
shall be closed. 
4.2.3.3.3 
The ambient temperature control system is then turned on (if not already on) 
and adjusted for an initial temperature of 35 °C, or at the choice of the 
manufacturer 36 °C. 
4.2.3.3.4 
When the enclosure stabilises at 35 °C  2 °C, or at the choice of the 
manufacturer 36 °C  2 °C, the enclosure is sealed and the background 
concentration, temperature and barometric pressure measured. These are the 
initial readings CHCi, Pi, Ti used in the enclosure calibration. 
4.2.3.3.5 
A quantity of approximately 4 grams of propane is injected into the enclosure. 
The mass of propane shall be measured to an accuracy and precision of 2 per 
cent of the measured value. 
4.2.3.3.6 
The contents of the chamber shall be allowed to mix for five minutes and then 
the hydrocarbon concentration, temperature and barometric pressure are 
measured. These are the readings CHCf, Pf, Tf for the calibration of the enclosure 
as well as the initial readings CHCi, Pi, Ti for the retention check. 
4.2.3.3.7 
Based on the readings taken according to paragraph 4.2.3.3.4. and 4.2.3.3.6. of 
this annex and the formula in paragraph 4.2.3.4. of this annex, the mass of 
propane in the enclosure is calculated. This shall be within ±2 per cent of the 
mass of propane measured in paragraph 4.2.3.3.5. of this annex. 



--- PAGE 529 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 529 of 762 
 
4.2.3.3.8 
For variable-volume enclosures the enclosure shall be unlatched from the 
nominal volume configuration. For fixed-volume enclosures, the outlet and 
inlet flow streams shall be opened. 
4.2.3.3.9 
The process is then begun of cycling the ambient temperature from 35 °C to 
20 °C and back to 35 °C, or at the choice of the manufacturer 35.6 °C to 
22.2 °C and back to 35.6 °C, over a 24-hour period according to the profile, or 
the alternative profile, specified in paragraph 6.5.9. of this annex within 
15 minutes of sealing the enclosure. (Tolerances as specified in 
paragraph 6.5.9.1. of this annex.) 
4.2.3.3.10 
At the completion of the 24-hour cycling period, the final hydrocarbon 
concentration, temperature and barometric pressure are measured and 
recorded. These are the final readings CHCf, Pf, Tf for the hydrocarbon retention 
check. 
4.2.3.3.11 
Using the formula in paragraph 4.2.3.4. of this annex, the hydrocarbon mass is 
then calculated from the readings taken in paragraphs 4.2.3.3.6. and 4.2.3.3.10. 
of this annex. The mass may not differ by more than 3 per cent from the 
hydrocarbon mass given in paragraph 4.2.3.3.7. of this annex. 
4.2.3.4 
Calculations 
 
The calculation of net hydrocarbon mass change within the enclosure is used 
to determine the chamber's hydrocarbon background and leak rate. Initial and 
final readings of hydrocarbon concentration, temperature and barometric 
pressure are used in the following formula to calculate the mass change. 
 
The calculation shall be undertaken in accordance in paragraph 7. of this annex, 
using the following value for V. 
 
V 
is the net enclosure volume, m3. 
4.3 
Analytical systems 
 
The analytical systems shall meet the requirements of paragraphs 4.3.1. to. 
4.3.3. of this annex. 
 
Continuous measuring of hydrocarbons is not mandatory unless the fixed 
volume type enclosure is used.  
4.3.1 
Hydrocarbon analyser 
4.3.1.1 
The atmosphere within the chamber is monitored using a hydrocarbon detector 
of the FID type. Sample gas shall be drawn from the mid-point of one side wall 
or roof of the chamber and any bypass flow shall be returned to the enclosure, 
preferably to a point immediately downstream of the mixing fan. 
4.3.1.2 
The hydrocarbon analyser shall have a response time to 90 per cent of final 
reading of less than 1.5 seconds. Its stability shall be better than 2 per cent of 



--- PAGE 530 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 530 of 762 
 
full scale at zero and at 80  20 per cent of full scale over a 15-minute period 
for all operational ranges. 
4.3.1.3 
The repeatability of the analyser expressed as one standard deviation shall be 
better than 1 per cent of full scale deflection at zero and at 80  20 per cent of 
full scale on all ranges used. 
4.3.1.4 
The operational ranges of the analyser shall be chosen to give best resolution 
over the measurement, calibration and leak checking procedures. 
4.3.2 
Hydrocarbon analyser data recording system 
4.3.2.1 
The hydrocarbon analyser shall be fitted with a device to record electrical 
signal output either by strip chart recorder or other data processing system at a 
frequency of at least once per minute. The recording system shall have 
operating characteristics at least equivalent to the signal being recorded and 
shall provide a permanent record of results. The record shall show a positive 
indication of the beginning and end of the hot soak or diurnal emission test 
(including beginning and end of sampling periods along with the time elapsed 
between start and completion of each test). 
4.3.3 
Checking of FID hydrocarbon analyser 
4.3.3.1 
Detector response optimization 
 
The FID shall be adjusted as specified by the instrument manufacturer. Propane 
in air should be used to optimise the response on the most common operating 
range. 
4.3.3.2 
Calibration of the hydrocarbon analyser 
 
The analyser should be calibrated using propane in air and purified synthetic 
air. See paragraph 6.2. of Annex B5 of this Regulation. 
 
Each of the normally used operating ranges are calibrated in accordance with 
paragraphs 4.3.3.2.1. to 4.3.3.2.4. of this annex. 
4.3.3.2.1 
Establish the calibration curve by at least five calibration points spaced as 
evenly as possible over the operating range. The nominal concentration of the 
calibration gas with the highest concentrations to be at least 80 per cent of the 
full scale. 
4.3.3.2.2 
Calculate the calibration curve by the method of least squares. If the resulting 
polynomial degree is greater than 3, then the number of calibration points shall 
be at least the number of the polynomial degree plus 2. 
4.3.3.2.3 
The calibration curve shall not differ by more than 2 per cent from the nominal 
value of each calibration gas. 
4.3.3.2.4 
Using the coefficients of the polynomial derived from paragraph 5 of Annex 
B5, a table of indicated reading against true concentration shall be drawn up in 
steps of no greater than 1 per cent of full scale. This is to be carried out for each 



--- PAGE 531 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 531 of 762 
 
analyser range calibrated. The table shall also contain other relevant data such 
as: 
 
(a) 
 
Date of calibration, span and zero potentiometer readings (where 
applicable); 
 
(b) 
 
Nominal scale; 
 
(c) 
 
Reference data of each calibration gas used; 
 
(d) 
 
The actual and indicated value of each calibration gas used 
together with the percentage differences; 
 
(e) 
 
FID fuel and type; 
 
(f) 
 
FID air pressure. 
4.3.3.2.5 
If it can be shown to the satisfaction of the Test Agency that alternative 
technology (e.g. computer, electronically controlled range switch) can give 
equivalent accuracy, then those alternatives may be used. 
4.4 
Temperature recording system 
 
The temperature recording system shall meet the requirements of 
paragraphs 4.4.1. to 4.4.5. of this annex. 
4.3.3.2.5 
If it can be shown to the satisfaction of the Test Agency that alternative 
technology (e.g. computer, electronically controlled range switch) can give 
equivalent accuracy, then those alternatives may be used 
4.4 
Temperature recording system 
 
The temperature recording system shall meet the requirements of 
paragraphs 4.4.1. to 4.4.5. of this annex. 
4.4.1 
The temperature in the chamber is recorded at two points by temperature 
sensors which are connected so as to show a mean value. The measuring points 
are extended approximately 0.1 m into the enclosure from the vertical centre 
line of each side wall at a height of 0.9 ± 0.2 m. 
4.4.2 
The temperatures of the fuel tank(s) are recorded by means of the sensor 
positioned in the fuel tank as in paragraph 6.1.1. of this annex in the case of 
use of the gasoline canister load option (paragraph 6.5.5.3. of this annex). 
4.4.3 
Temperatures shall, throughout the evaporative emission measurements, be 
recorded or entered into a data processing system at a frequency of at least once 
per minute. 
4.4.4 
The accuracy of the temperature recording system shall be within 1.0 K and 
the temperature shall be capable of being resolved to 0.4 K. 



--- PAGE 532 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 532 of 762 
 
4.4.5 
The recording or data processing system shall be capable of resolving time to 
15 seconds. 
4.5 
Pressure recording system 
 
The pressure recording system shall meet the requirements of paragraphs 4.5.1. 
to 4.5.3 of this annex. 
4.5.1 
The difference Δp between barometric pressure within the test area and the 
enclosure internal pressure shall, throughout the evaporative emission 
measurements, be recorded or entered into a data processing system at a 
frequency of at least once per minute. 
4.5.2 
The accuracy of the pressure recording system shall be within 0.3 kPa and the 
pressure shall be capable of being resolved to 0.025 kPa. 
4.5.3 
The recording or data processing system shall be capable of resolving time 
to 15 seconds. 
4.6 
Fans 
 
The fans shall meet the requirements of paragraphs 4.6.1. and 4.6.2. of this 
annex. 
4.6.1 
By the use of one or more fans or blowers with the Sealed Housing Evaporative 
Determination (SHED) door(s) open, it shall be possible to reduce the 
hydrocarbons concentration in the chamber to the ambient hydrocarbon level. 
4.6.2 
The chamber shall have one or more fans or blowers of like capacity 0.1 to 
0.5 m3/sec. with which to thoroughly mix the atmosphere in the enclosure. It 
shall be possible to attain an even temperature and hydrocarbon concentration 
in the chamber during measurements. The vehicle in the enclosure shall not be 
subjected to a direct stream of air from the fans or blowers. 
4.7 
Calibration gases 
 
The gases shall meet the requirements of paragraphs 4.7.1. and 4.7.2. of this 
annex. 
4.7.1 
The following pure gases shall be available for calibration and operation: 
 
Purified synthetic air: (purity < 1 ppm C1 equivalent, 
 
1 ppm CO,  400 ppm CO2,  0.1 ppm NO); 
 
Oxygen content between 18 and 21 per cent by volume. 
 
Hydrocarbon analyser fuel gas: (40  2 per cent hydrogen, and balance helium 
with less than 1 ppm C1 equivalent hydrocarbon, less than 400 ppm CO2), 
 
Propane (C3H8): 99.5 per cent minimum purity. 



--- PAGE 533 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 533 of 762 
 
 
Butane (C4H10): 98 per cent minimum purity. 
 
Nitrogen (N2): 
98 per cent minimum purity. 
4.7.2 
Calibration and span gases shall be available containing mixtures of propane 
(C3H8) and purified synthetic air. The true concentrations of a calibration gas 
shall be within 2 per cent of the stated figures. The accuracy of the diluted 
gases obtained when using a gas divider shall be to within 2 per cent of the 
true value. The concentrations specified in paragraphs 4.2.3. and 4.3.3. of this 
annex may also be obtained by the use of a gas divider using synthetic air as 
the dilutant gas. 
4.8 
Carbon canister weighing scale for depressurisation puff loss overflow 
measurement 
 
The carbon canister weighing scale shall have an accuracy of ±0.02 g. 
4.9 
Fuel tank heating (only applicable for gasoline canister load option) 
4.9.1 
The fuel in the vehicle tank(s) shall be heated by a controllable source of heat; 
for example a heating pad of 2,000 W capacity is suitable. The heating system 
shall apply heat evenly to the tank walls beneath the level of the fuel so as not 
to cause local overheating of the fuel. Heat shall not be applied to the vapour 
in the tank above the fuel. 
4.9.2 
The tank heating device shall make it possible to heat the fuel in the tank evenly 
by 14 °C from 16 °C within 60 minutes, with the temperature sensor position 
as in paragraph 4.9.3. of this annex. The heating system shall be capable of 
controlling the fuel temperature to 1.5 °C of the required temperature during 
the tank heating process. 
4.9.3 
The fuel tank of the vehicle shall, without introducing any leaks, be equipped 
with a temperature sensor to enable the temperature to be measured at the mid-
point of the fuel in the fuel tank when filled to 40 per cent of its capacity. 
5.0 
Procedure for carbon canister bench ageing and PF determination 
5.1 
Carbon canister bench ageing 
 
Before performing the hot soak and diurnal losses sequences, the carbon 
canister shall be aged according to the procedure described in Figure C3/1. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 534 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 534 of 762 
 
 
Figure C3/1 
Carbon canister bench ageing procedure 
 
 
5.1.1 
Ageing through exposure to temperature cycling 
 
The carbon canister shall be cycled between temperatures from -15 °C to 60 °C 
in a dedicated temperature enclosure with 30 minutes of stabilisation at -15 °C 
and 60 °C. Each cycle shall last 210 minutes (see Figure C3/2). 
 
The temperature gradient shall be as close as possible to 1 °C/min. No forced 
air flow should pass through the carbon canister. 
 
The cycle shall be repeated 50 times consecutively. In total, this procedure lasts 
175 hours. 
 
Figure C3/2 
Temperature conditioning cycle 
 
 
5.1.2 
Ageing through exposure to vibration 



--- PAGE 535 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 535 of 762 
 
 
Following the temperature ageing procedure, the carbon canister shall be 
shaken vertically with the carbon canister mounted as per its orientation in the 
vehicle with an overall Grms (root mean square acceleration) > 1.5 m/sec2 with 
a frequency of 30 ±10 Hz. The test shall last 12 hours 
5.1.3 
Ageing through exposure to fuel vapour and determining BWC300  
5.1.3.1 
Ageing shall consist of repeatedly loading with fuel vapour and purging with 
laboratory air. 
5.1.3.1.1 
After temperature and vibration ageing, the carbon canister shall be further 
aged with a mixture of market fuel as specified in paragraph 5.1.3.1.1.1. of this 
annex and nitrogen or air with a 50 ±15 per cent fuel vapour volume. The fuel 
vapour fill rate shall be 60 ±20 g/h. 
 
The carbon canister shall be loaded to 2 gram breakthrough. Alternatively, 
loading shall be considered to be completed when the hydrocarbon 
concentration level at the vent outlet reaches 3,000 ppm. 
5.1.3.1.1.1 The market fuel used for this test shall fulfil the same requirements as a 
reference fuel with respect to: 
 
(a) 
 
Density at 15 °C; 
 
(b) 
 
Vapour pressure; 
 
(c) 
 
Distillation (70 °C, 100 °C, 150 °C); 
 
(d) 
 
Hydrocarbon analysis (olefins, aromatics, benzene only); 
 
(e) 
 
Oxygen content; 
 
(f) 
 
Ethanol content. 
5.1.3.1.2 
The carbon canister shall be purged between 5 and 60 minutes after loading 
with 25 ±5 litres per minute of emission laboratory air until 300 bed volume 
exchanges are reached. 
5.1.3.1.3 
The procedures set out in paragraphs 5.1.3.1.1. and 5.1.3.1.2. of this annex shall 
be repeated 300 times after which the carbon canister shall be considered to be 
stabilised. 
5.1.3.1.4 
The procedure to measure the butane working capacity (BWC) with respect to 
the evaporative emission family in paragraph 6.6.3. of this Regulation shall 
consist of the following. 
 
(a) 
 
The stabilised carbon canister shall be loaded to 2 gram breakthrough 
and subsequently purged a minimum of 5 times. Loading shall be 
performed with a mixture composed of 50 per cent butane and 50 per 
cent nitrogen by volume at a rate of 40 grams butane per hour. 



--- PAGE 536 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 536 of 762 
 
 
(b) 
 
Purging shall be performed according to paragraph 5.1.3.1.2. of this 
annex 
 
(c) 
 
The BWC shall be recorded after each loading. 
 
(d) 
 
BWC300 shall be calculated as the average of the last 5 BWCs. 
5.1.3.2 
If the aged carbon canister is provided by a supplier, the vehicle manufacturer 
shall inform the Test Agency in advance of the ageing process to enable the 
witnessing of any part of that process. 
5.1.3.3 
The manufacturer shall provide the Test Agency a test report including at least 
the following elements 
 
(a) 
 
Type of activated carbon; 
 
(b) 
 
Loading rate; 
 
(c) 
 
Fuel specifications. 
5.2 
Determination of the PF of the fuel tank system (see Figure C3/3) 
 
Figure C3/3 
Determination of PF 



--- PAGE 537 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 537 of 762 
 
 
 
 
 
5.2.1 
The fuel tank system representative of a family shall be selected and mounted 
on a rig in a similar orientation as in the vehicle. The tank shall be filled to 
40 ±2 per cent of its nominal capacity with reference fuel at a temperature of 
18 °C ±2 °C. The rig with the fuel tank system shall be placed in a room with 
a controlled temperature of 40 °C ±2 °C for 3 weeks. 
5.2.2 
At the end of the third week, the tank shall be drained and refilled with 
reference fuel at a temperature of 18 °C ±2 °C to 40 ±2 per cent of its nominal 
capacity. 
 
Within 6 to 36 hours, the rig with the fuel tank system shall be placed in an 
enclosure. The last 6 hours of this period shall be at an ambient temperature of 
20 °C ±2 °C. In the enclosure, a diurnal procedure shall be performed over the 
Test start 
5.2.1. Fill the tank to 40 ±2 per cent of its nominal capacity 
with reference fuel 
5.2.1. Soak for 3 weeks at 40 °C ±2 °C 
5.2.2. Measurement of HC in the same conditions as for the 
1st day of diurnal emission test: 
HC3w  
5.2.3. Soak for the remaining 17 weeks at 40 °C ±2 °C  
5.2.4. Measurement of HC in the same conditions as for the 
1st day of diurnal emission test: 
HC20w  
5.2.5. Permeability Factor = HC20w - HC3w  
5.2.2. Drain and fill the tank to 40 per cent of its nominal 
capacity with reference fuel 
5.2.4. Drain and fill the tank to 40 per cent of its nominal 
capacity with reference fuel 



--- PAGE 538 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 538 of 762 
 
first 24-hour period of the procedure described in paragraph 6.5.9. of this 
annex. The fuel vapour in the tank shall be vented to the outside of the 
enclosure to eliminate the possibility of the tank venting emissions being 
counted as permeation. The HC emissions shall be measured and the value shall 
be recorded as HC3W. 
5.2.3 
The rig with the fuel tank system shall be placed again in a room with a 
controlled temperature of 40 °C ±2 °C for the remaining 17 weeks. 
5.2.4 
At the end of the seventeenth week, the tank shall be drained and refilled with 
reference fuel at a temperature of 18 °C ±2 °C to 40 ±2 per cent of its nominal 
tank capacity. 
 
Within 6 to 36 hours, the rig with the fuel tank system shall be placed in an 
enclosure. The last 6 hours of this period shall be at an ambient temperature of 
20 °C ±2 °C. In the enclosure, a diurnal procedure shall be performed over a 
first period of 24 hours of the procedure described according to 
paragraph 6.5.9. of this annex. The fuel tank system shall be vented to the 
outside of the enclosure to eliminate the possibility of the tank venting 
emissions being counted as permeation. The HC emissions shall be measured 
and the value shall be recorded in this case as HC20W. 
5.2.5 
The PF is the difference between HC20W and HC3W in g/24h calculated to 3 
significant digits using the following equation: 
 
𝑃𝐹= 𝐻𝐶20𝑤− 𝐻𝐶3𝑊 
5.2.6 
If the PF is determined by a supplier, the vehicle manufacturer shall inform the 
Test agency in advance of the determination to allow witness check in the 
supplier’s facility. 
5.2.7 
The manufacturer shall provide the Test Agency with a test report containing 
at least the following: 
 
(a) 
 
A full description of the fuel tank system tested, including 
information on the type of tank tested, whether the tank is metal, 
monolayer non-metal or multilayer, and which types of materials are 
used for the tank and other parts of the fuel tank system; 
 
(b) 
 
The weekly mean temperatures at which the ageing was performed; 
 
(c) 
 
The HC measured at week 3 (HC3W); 
 
(d) 
 
The HC measured at week 20 (HC20W); 
 
(e) 
 
The resulting permeability factor (PF). 
5.2.8 
As an alternative to paragraphs 5.2.1. to 5.2.7. inclusive of this annex, a 
manufacturer using multilayer tanks or metal tanks may choose to use an 
Assigned Permeability Factor (APF) instead of performing the complete 
measurement procedure mentioned above: 



--- PAGE 539 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 539 of 762 
 
 
APF multilayer/metal tank = 120 mg /24 h 
 
Where the manufacturer chooses to use an APF, the manufacturer shall provide 
the Test Agency with a declaration in which the type of tank is clearly specified 
as well as a declaration of the type of materials used. 
6.0 
Test procedure for the measurement of hot soak and diurnal losses 
6.1 
Vehicle preparation 
 
The vehicle shall be prepared in accordance with paragraphs 6.1.1. and 6.1.2. 
of this annex. At the request of the manufacturer and with approval of the Test 
Agency, non-fuel background emission sources (e.g. paint, adhesives, plastics, 
fuel/vapour lines, tyres, and other rubber or polymer components) may be 
reduced to typical vehicle background levels before testing (e.g. baking of tyres 
at temperatures of 50 °C or higher for appropriate periods, baking of the 
vehicle, draining washer fluid). 
 
For a sealed fuel tank system, the vehicle carbon canisters shall be installed so 
that access to carbon canisters and connection/disconnection of carbon 
canisters can be done easily. 
6.1.1 
The vehicle shall be mechanically prepared before the test as follows: 
 
(a) 
 
The exhaust system of the vehicle shall not exhibit any leaks; 
 
(b) 
 
The vehicle may be steam-cleaned before the test; 
 
(c) 
 
In the case of use of the gasoline canister load option 
(paragraph 6.5.5.3. of this annex) the fuel tank of the vehicle shall be 
equipped with a temperature sensor to enable the temperature to be 
measured at the mid-point of the fuel in the fuel tank when filled to 
40 per cent of its capacity; 
 
(d) 
 
Additional fittings, adapters of devices may be fitted to the fuel 
system in order to allow a complete draining of the fuel tank. For this 
purpose it is not necessary to modify the shell of the tank; 
 
(e) 
 
The manufacturer may propose a test method in order to take into 
account the loss of hydrocarbons by evaporation coming only from 
the fuel system of the vehicle. 
6.1.2 
The vehicle is taken into the test area where the ambient temperature is between 
20 and 30 °C. 
6.2 
Mode selections and gear shift prescriptions 
6.2.1 
For vehicles with manual shift transmissions, the gear shift prescriptions 
specified in Annex B2 shall apply. 



--- PAGE 540 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 540 of 762 
 
6.2.2 
In the case of pure ICE vehicles, the mode shall be selected according to 
Annex B6. 
6.2.3 
In the case of NOVC-HEVs and OVC-HEVs, the mode shall be selected 
according to Appendix 6 to Annex B8. 
6.2.4 
Upon request of the Test Agency, the selected mode may be different from that 
described in paragraphs 6.2.2. and 6.2.3. of this annex. 
6.3 
Test conditions 
 
The tests included in this annex shall be performed using the test conditions 
specific to interpolation family vehicle H with the highest cycle energy demand 
of all the interpolation families included in the evaporative emission family 
being considered. 
 
Otherwise, at the request of the Test Agency, any cycle energy representative 
of a vehicle in the family may be used for the test.  
6.4 
Flow of the test procedure 
 
The test procedure for non-sealed and sealed tank systems shall be followed 
according to the flow chart described in Figure C3/4. 
 
 
The sealed fuel tank systems shall be tested with one of 2 options. One option 
is to test the vehicle with one continuous procedure. Another option, called the 
'stand-alone test procedure', is to test the vehicle with two separate procedures 
which will allow repeating the dynamometer test and the diurnal tests without 
repeating the tank depressurisation puff loss overflow test and the 
depressurisation puff loss measurement. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 541 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 541 of 762 
 
Figure C3/4 
Test procedure flow charts 
 
 
 
 
 
Start for: Non-sealed fuel tanks, sealed 
fuel tanks continuous and sealed fuel 
tanks stand-alone puff loss 
6.5.1. Fuel drain and refill to 40 % 
6.5.2. Soak for 6 to 36 hours @ 23 °C 
6.5.3. Preconditioning drive 
Start for: Sealed fuel tanks, stand-
alone hot soak and diurnals 
6 to 36 hours 
6.6.1.4. Fuel tank pressure relief 
6.5.6. Dynamometer test 
Start hot soak test within 7 
minutes after dynamometer test 
and 2 minutes after engine being 
switched off
6.5.7. Hot soak test: MHS 
6.5.8. Soak for 6 to 36 hours @ 20 °C 
6.5.9. 1
st day diurnal: MD1 
6.5.9. 2
nd day diurnal: MD2 
7. Calculations 
End 
6.6.1.2. Fuel drain and refill to 15 % 
6.5.5. Soak for 12 to 36 hours @ 23 °C 
6.6.1.5. Load aged canister to 2 g 
breakthrough 
6.6.1.5. Canister purge 85 % fuel 
consumption equivalent 
6.6.1.6. Preparation of canister 
depressurisation puff loss loading  
(11-hour temperature cycle) 
6.6.1.7.2. Puff 
loss loading 
6.6.1.8. 
Measurement 
of puff loss 
overflow 
End of stand-alone puff loss test 
6.6.1.9. Soak for 6 to 36 hours @ 23 °C 
6.6.1.9.1. Charge OVC-HEV 
6.6.1.10. Fuel drain and refill to 40 
% 
6.6.1.11. Soak for 6 to 36 hours @ 
20 °C 
6.6.1.12. Fuel tank depressurisation 
with canister disconnected 
6.5.1. Fuel drain and refill to 40 % 
6.5.2. Soak for 6 to 36 hours @ 23 °C 
6.5.3. Preconditioning drive 
6.6.1.9. Soak for 6 to 36 hours @ 23 °C 
6.6.1.9.1. 
Charge OVC-
HEV REESS 
6.6.1.5. Load 
aged canister to 
2 g 
breakthrough 
6.6.1.5. Canister 
purge 85 % fuel 
consumption 
equivalent 
6.7.2.1.3. 
Canister loading 
with puff loss 
simulated mass 
6.5.4. Fuel drain and refill to 40 % 
Start next fuel drain and refill 
within 1 hour 
Start next soak within 5 minutes 
Start next fuel drain and refill 
within 1 hour 
Start next soak within 5 minutes 
Start next soak within 5 minutes 
Start puff loss 
loading within 
15 minutes 
Start next soak within 5 minutes 
Yes 
No 
Sealed fuel tank system? 
6.5.5.1. Charge 
OVC-HEV 
REESS 
6.5.5.2. Load 
aged canister to 
2 g 
breakthrough 
6.6.1.3. Soak for 6 to 36 hours @ 
20°C



--- PAGE 542 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 542 of 762 
 
6.5 
Continuous test procedure for non-sealed fuel tank systems 
6.5.1 
Fuel drain and refill 
 
The fuel tank of the vehicle shall be emptied. This shall be done so as not to 
abnormally purge or abnormally load the evaporative control devices fitted to 
the vehicle. Removal of the fuel cap is normally sufficient to achieve this. The 
fuel tank shall be refilled with reference fuel at a temperature of 18 °C ±2 °C to 
40 ±2 per cent of its nominal capacity. 
6.5.2 
Soak 
 
Within 5 minutes after completing the fuel drain and refill, the vehicle shall be 
soaked for a minimum of 6 hours and a maximum of 36 hours at 23 °C ±3 °C.  
6.5.3 
Preconditioning drive 
 
The vehicle shall be placed on a chassis dynamometer and driven over the 
following phases of the cycle described in Annex B1 
 
(a) 
For Class 1 vehicles: 
 
 
low, medium, low, low, medium, low 
 
(b) 
For Class 2 and 3 vehicles: low, medium, high, medium. 
 
For OVC-HEVs, the preconditioning drive shall be performed under the charge-
sustaining operating condition as defined in paragraph 3.3.6 of this Regulation. 
Upon the request of Test Agency, any other mode may be used. 
6.5.4 
Fuel drain and refill 
 
Within one hour after the preconditioning drive, the fuel tank of the vehicle shall 
be emptied. This shall be done so as not to abnormally purge or abnormally load 
the evaporative control devices fitted to the vehicle. Removal of the fuel cap is 
normally sufficient to achieve this. The fuel tank shall be refilled with test fuel 
at a temperature of 18 °C ±2 °C to 40 ±2 per cent of its nominal capacity. 
6.5.5 
Soak 
 
Within five minutes of completing fuel drain and refill, the vehicle shall be 
parked for a minimum of 12 hours and a maximum of 36 hours at 23 °C ±3 °C. 
 
During soaking, the procedures described in paragraphs 6.5.5.1. and 6.5.5.2. of 
this annex.may be performed either in the order of first paragraph 6.5.5.1. 
followed by paragraph 6.5.5.2. or in the order paragraph 6.5.5.2. followed by 
paragraph 6.5.5.1. The procedures described in paragraphs 6.5.5.1. and 6.5.5.2. 
may also be performed simultaneously. 
6.5.5.1 
REESS charge 



--- PAGE 543 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 543 of 762 
 
 
For OVC-HEVs, the REESS shall be fully charged according to the charging 
requirements described in paragraph 2.2.3. of Appendix 4 to Annex B8. 
6.5.5.2 
Carbon canister loading 
 
The carbon canister aged according to the sequence described in paragraph 5.1. 
to 5.1.3.1.3. inclusive of this annex shall be loaded to 2 gram breakthrough 
according to the procedure described in paragraph 6.5.5.2.1. of this annex. 
 
One of the methods specified in paragraphs 6.5.5.3. and 6.5.5.4. of this annex 
shall be used to precondition the evaporative canister. For vehicles with multiple 
canisters, each canister shall be preconditioned separately. 
6.5.5.2.1 
Canister emissions are measured to determine breakthrough. 
 
Breakthrough is here defined as the point at which the cumulative quantity of 
hydrocarbons emitted is equal to 2 grams. 
6.5.5.2.2 
Breakthrough may be verified using the evaporative emission enclosure as 
described in paragraphs 6.5.5.3. and 6.5.5.4. of this annex. Alternatively, 
breakthrough may be determined using an auxiliary evaporative canister 
connected downstream of the vehicle's canister. The auxiliary canister shall be 
well purged with dry air prior to loading. 
6.5.5.2.3 
The measuring chamber shall be purged for several minutes immediately before 
the test until a stable background is obtained. The chamber air mixing fan(s) 
shall be switched on at this time. 
 
The hydrocarbon analyser shall be zeroed and spanned immediately before the 
test. 
6.5.5.3 
Canister loading with repeated heat builds to breakthrough 
6.5.5.3.1 
The fuel tank(s) of the vehicle(s) is (are) emptied using the fuel tank drain(s). 
This shall be done so as not to abnormally purge or abnormally load the 
evaporative control devices fitted to the vehicle. Removal of the fuel cap is 
normally sufficient to achieve this. 
6.5.5.3.2 
The fuel tank(s) is (are) refilled with test fuel at a temperature of between 10 to 
14 °C to 40  2 per cent of the tank's normal volumetric capacity. The fuel cap(s) 
of the vehicle shall be fitted at this point. 
6.5.5.3.3 
Within one hour of being refuelled the vehicle shall be placed, with the engine 
shut off, in the evaporative emission enclosure. The fuel tank temperature sensor 
is connected to the temperature recording system. A heat source shall be 
properly positioned with respect to the fuel tank(s) and connected to the 
temperature controller. The heat source is specified in paragraph 4.9. of this 
annex. In the case of vehicles fitted with more than one fuel tank, all the tanks 
shall be heated in the same way as described below. The temperatures of the 
tanks shall be identical to within 1.5 °C. 



--- PAGE 544 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 544 of 762 
 
6.5.5.3.4 
The fuel may be artificially heated to the starting diurnal temperature of 20 °C 
 1 °C. 
6.5.5.3.5 
When the fuel temperature reaches at least 19 °C, the following steps shall be 
taken immediately: the purge blower shall be turned off; enclosure doors closed 
and sealed; and measurement initiated of the hydrocarbon level in the enclosure. 
6.5.5.3.6 
When the fuel temperature of the fuel tank reaches 20 °C a linear heat build of 
15 °C begins. The fuel shall be heated in such a way that the temperature of the 
fuel during the heating conforms to the function below to within 1.5 °C. The 
elapsed time of the heat build and temperature rise is recorded. 
 
Tr = To + 0.2333 x t 
 
Where:  
 
Tr = required temperature (K), 
 
To =  initial temperature (K) 
 
T – time from start of the tank heat build in minutes.  
6.5.5.3.7 
As soon as break-through occurs or when the fuel temperature reaches 35 °C, 
whichever occurs first, the heat source is turned off, the enclosure doors 
unsealed and opened, and the vehicle fuel tank cap(s) removed. If break-through 
has not occurred by the time the fuel temperature 35 °C, the heat source is 
removed from the vehicle, the vehicle removed from the evaporative emission 
enclosure and the entire procedure outlined in paragraph 6.6.1.2. of this annex 
repeated until break-through occurs. 
6.5.5.4 
Butane loading to breakthrough 
6.5.5.4.1 
If the enclosure is used for the determination of the break-through 
(see paragraph 6.5.5.2.2. of this annex) the vehicle shall be placed, with the 
engine shut off, in the evaporative emission enclosure. 
6.5.5.4.2 
The evaporative emission canister shall be prepared for the canister loading 
operation. The canister shall not be removed from the vehicle, unless access to 
it in its normal location is so restricted that loading can only reasonably be 
accomplished by removing the canister from the vehicle. Special care shall be 
taken during this step to avoid damage to the components and the integrity of 
the fuel system 
6.5.5.4.3 
The canister is loaded with a mixture composed of 50 per cent butane and 50 per 
cent nitrogen by volume at a rate of 40 grams butane per hour. 
6.5.5.4.4 
As soon as the canister reaches breakthrough, the vapour source shall be shut 
off. 
6.5.5.4.5 
The evaporative emission canister shall then be reconnected and the vehicle 
restored to its normal operating condition. 



--- PAGE 545 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 545 of 762 
 
6.5.6 
Dynamometer test 
 
The test vehicle shall be pushed onto a dynamometer and shall be driven over 
the cycles described in paragraph 6.5.3.(a) or paragraph 6.5.3.(b) of this annex. 
OVC-HEVs shall be operated in charge-depleting operating condition. The 
engine shall be subsequently shut off. Exhaust emissions may be sampled during 
this operation and the results may be used for the purpose of exhaust emission 
and fuel consumption type approval if this operation meets the requirement 
described in Annex B6 or Annex B8 of this regulation. 
6.5.7 
Hot soak evaporative emissions test 
 
Within 7 minutes after the dynamometer test and within 2 minutes of the engine 
being switched off, the hot soak evaporative emissions test shall be performed 
in accordance with paragraphs 6.5.7.1. to 6.5.7.8. of this annex. The hot soak 
losses shall be calculated according to paragraph 7.1. of this annex and recorded 
as MHS. 
6.5.7.1 
Before the completion of the test run the measuring chamber shall be purged for 
several minutes until a stable hydrocarbon background is obtained. The 
enclosure mixing fan(s) shall also be turned on at this time. 
6.5.7.2 
The hydrocarbon analyser shall be zeroed and spanned immediately prior to the 
test. 
6.5.7.3 
At the end of the driving cycle the engine bonnet shall be completely closed and 
all connections between the vehicle and the test stand disconnected. The vehicle 
is then driven to the measuring chamber with a minimum use of the accelerator 
pedal. The engine shall be turned off before any part of the vehicle enters the 
measuring chamber. The time at which the engine is switched off is recorded on 
the evaporative emission measurement data recording system and temperature 
recording begins. The vehicle's windows and luggage compartments shall be 
opened at this stage, if not already opened. 
6.5.7.4 
The vehicle shall be pushed or otherwise moved into the measuring chamber 
with the engine switched off. 
6.5.7.5 
The enclosure doors are closed and sealed gas-tight within two minutes of the 
engine being switched off and within seven minutes of the end of the 
conditioning drive. 
6.5.7.6 
The start of a 60  0.5 minute hot soak period begins when the chamber is 
sealed. The hydrocarbon concentration, temperature and barometric pressure 
are measured to give the initial readings CHCi, Pi and Ti for the hot soak test. 
These figures are used in the evaporative emission calculation, paragraph 6. The 
ambient temperature T of the enclosure shall not be less than 23 °C and no more 
than 31 °C during the 60-minute hot soak period. 
6.5.7.7 
The hydrocarbon analyser shall be zeroed and spanned immediately before the 
end of the 60  0.5 minute test period 



--- PAGE 546 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 546 of 762 
 
6.5.7.8 
At the end of the 60  0.5 minute test period, the hydrocarbon concentration in 
the chamber shall be measured. The temperature and the barometric pressure 
are also measured. These are the final readings CHCf, Pf and Tf for the hot soak 
test used for the calculation in paragraph 6. of this annex. 
6.5.8 
Soak 
 
After the hot soak evaporative emissions test, the test vehicle shall be soaked 
for not less than 6 hours and not more than 36 hours between the end of the hot 
soak test and the start of the diurnal emission test. For at least the last 6 hours 
of this period the vehicle shall be soaked at 20 °C ±2 °C. 
6.5.9 
Diurnal testing 
6.5.9.1 
The test vehicle shall be exposed to two cycles of ambient temperature in 
accordance with the profile specified in Table C4/1 with a maximum deviation 
of 2 °C at any time. The average temperature deviation from the profile, 
calculated using the absolute value of each measured deviation, shall not exceed 
1 °C. Ambient temperature shall be measured and recorded at least every 
minute. Temperature cycling shall begin at time Tstart = 0, as specified in 
paragraph 6.5.9.6. of this annex. 
 
Table C4/1 
Diurnal Ambient Temperature Profiles 
 
Diurnal ambient temperature profile for 
the calibration  
of the enclosure and the diurnal emission 
test 
Alternative diurnal ambient 
temperature profile for the 
calibration of the enclosure 
 
Time (hours) 
Temperat
ure 
 (°Ci) 
Time (hours) 
Temperature 
 (°Ci) 
 
Calibration 
Test 
 
13 
0/24 
20.0 
0 
35.6 
 
14 
1 
20.2 
1 
35.3 
 
15 
2 
20.5 
2 
34.5 
 
16 
3 
21.2 
3 
33.2 
 
17 
4 
23.1 
4 
31.4 
 
18 
5 
25.1 
5 
29.7 
 
19 
6 
27.2 
6 
28.2 
 
20 
7 
29.8 
7 
27.2 
 
21 
8 
31.8 
8 
26.1 
 
22 
9 
33.3 
9 
25.1 
 
23 
10 
34.4 
10 
24.3 
 
24/0 
11 
35.0 
11 
23.7 
 
1 
12 
34.7 
12 
23.3 



--- PAGE 547 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 547 of 762 
 
 
2 
13 
33.8 
13 
22.9 
 
3 
14 
32.0 
14 
22.6 
 
4 
15 
30.0 
15 
22.2 
 
5 
16 
28.4 
16 
22.5 
 
6 
17 
26.9 
17 
24.2 
 
7 
18 
25.2 
18 
26.8 
 
8 
19 
24.0 
19 
29.6 
 
9 
20 
23.0 
20 
31.9 
 
10 
21 
22.0 
21 
33.9 
 
11 
22 
20.8 
22 
35.1 
 
12 
23 
20.2 
23 
3.4 
 
 
 
 
24 
35.6 
6.5.9.2 
The enclosure shall be purged for several minutes immediately before the test 
until a stable background is obtained. The chamber mixing fan(s) shall also be 
switched on at this time. 
6.5.9.3 
The test vehicle, with the powertrain shut off and the test vehicle windows and 
luggage compartment(s) opened, shall be moved into the measuring chamber. 
The mixing fan(s) shall be adjusted in such a way as to maintain a minimum air 
circulation speed of 8 km/h under the fuel tank of the test vehicle. 
6.5.9.4 
The hydrocarbon analyser shall be zeroed and spanned immediately before the 
test. 
6.5.9.5 
The enclosure doors shall be closed and sealed gas-tight. 
6.5.9.6 
Within 10 minutes of closing and sealing the doors, the hydrocarbon 
concentration, temperature and barometric pressure shall be measured to give 
initial readings of hydrocarbon concentration in the enclosure (CHCi), barometric 
pressure (Pi) and ambient chamber temperature (Ti) for the diurnal testing. 
Tstart = 0 starts at this time. 
6.5.9.7 
The hydrocarbon analyser shall be zeroed and spanned immediately before the 
end of each emission sampling period. 
6.5.9.8 
The end of the first and second emission sampling period shall occur at 
24 hours 6 minutes and 48 hours 6 minutes, respectively, after the beginning 
of the initial sampling, as specified in paragraph 6.5.9.6. of this annex. The 
elapsed time shall be recorded. 
 
At the end of each emission sampling period, the hydrocarbon concentration, 
temperature and barometric pressure shall be measured and used to calculate the 
diurnal test results using the equation in paragraph 7.1. of this annex. The result 
obtained from the first 24 hours shall be recorded as MD1. The result obtained 
from the second 24 hours shall be recorded as MD2. 
6.6 
Continuous test procedure for sealed fuel tank systems 



--- PAGE 548 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 548 of 762 
 
6.6.1 
In the case that the fuel tank relief pressure is greater than or equal to 30 kPa 
6.6.1.1 
The test shall be performed as described in paragraphs 6.5.1. to 6.5.3. inclusive 
of this annex. 
6.6.1.2 
Fuel drain and refill 
 
Within one hour after the preconditioning drive, the fuel tank of the vehicle shall 
be emptied. This shall be done so as not to abnormally purge or abnormally load 
the evaporative control devices fitted to the vehicle. Removal of the fuel cap is 
normally sufficient to achieve this, otherwise the carbon canister shall be 
disconnected. The fuel tank shall be refilled with reference fuel at a temperature 
of 18 °C ±2 °C to 15 ±2 per cent of the tank's nominal capacity. The operations 
described in paragraphs 6.6.1.3., 6.6.1.4. and 6.6.1.5. of this annex shall be 
completed within a total of 36 hours and for the operations described in 
paragraphs 6.6.1.4. and 6.6.1.5. the vehicle shall not be exposed to temperatures 
above 25°C.  
6.6.1.3 
Soak 
 
Within 5 minutes after completing fuel drain and refill, the vehicle shall be 
soaked for stabilisation for at least 6 hours at an ambient temperature of 
20 °C ±2 °C.  
6.6.1.4 
Fuel tank depressurisation 
 
The tank pressure shall be subsequently released so as not to abnormally raise 
the inside pressure of the fuel tank. This may be done by opening the fuel cap 
of the vehicle. Regardless of the method of depressurisation, the vehicle shall 
be returned to its original condition within 1 minute.  
6.6.1.5 
Carbon canister loading and purge 
 
The carbon canister aged in accordance with the sequence described in 
paragraph 5.1. to 5.1.3.1.3. inclusive of this annex shall be loaded to 2 gram 
breakthrough according to the procedure described in paragraphs 6.5.5.4. to 
6.5.5.4.5. inclusive to this annex, and shall be subsequently purged with 
25 ±5 litres per minute with emission laboratory air. The volume of purge air 
shall not exceed the volume determined in accordance with the requirements of 
paragraph 6.6.1.5.1. This loading and purging can be done either (a) using an 
on-board carbon canister at a temperature of 20 °C or optionally 23 °C, or (b) 
by disconnecting the carbon canister. In both cases, no further relief of the tank 
pressure is allowed. 
6.6.1.5.1 
Determination of maximum purge volume 
 
The maximum purge amount 𝑉𝑜𝑙𝑚𝑎𝑥 shall be determined by the following 
equation. In the case of OVC-HEVs, the vehicle shall be operated in charge-
sustaining operating condition. This determination can also be done at a separate 
test or during the preconditioning drive. 



--- PAGE 549 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 549 of 762 
 
 
𝑉𝑜𝑙𝑚𝑎𝑥= 𝑉𝑜𝑙𝑃𝑐𝑦𝑐𝑙𝑒 × 
𝑉𝑜𝑙𝑡𝑎𝑛𝑘 ×  0.85 ×
100
 𝐹𝐶𝑃𝑐𝑦𝑐𝑙𝑒
𝐷𝑖𝑠𝑡𝑃𝑐𝑦𝑐𝑙𝑒
 
 
where: 
 
𝑉𝑜𝑙𝑃𝑐𝑦𝑐𝑙𝑒  
is the cumulative purge volume rounded to the nearest 0.1 litres 
measured using a suitable device (e.g. flowmeter connected to the 
vent of the carbon canister or equivalent) over the cold start 
preconditioning drive described in the paragraph 6.5.3. of this 
annex, l; 
 
𝑉𝑜𝑙𝑡𝑎𝑛𝑘 
is the manufacturer’s nominal fuel tank capacity, l; 
 
𝐹𝐶𝑃𝑐𝑦𝑐𝑙𝑒  
is the fuel consumption over the single purge cycle described in 
paragraph 6.5.3. of this annex which may be measured in either 
warm or cold start condition, l/100 km. For OVC-HEVs and 
NOVC-HEVs, fuel consumption shall be calculated according to 
paragraph 4.2.1. of Annex B8 of this Regulation; 
 
𝐷𝑖𝑠𝑡𝑃𝑐𝑦𝑐𝑙𝑒  is the theoretical distance to the nearest 0.1 km of a single purge   
cycle described in paragraph 6.5.3. of this annex, km. 
6.6.1.6 
Preparation of carbon canister depressurisation puff loss loading 
 
After completing carbon canister loading and purging, the test vehicle shall be 
moved into an enclosure, either a SHED or an appropriate climatic chamber. It 
shall be demonstrated that the system is leak-free and the pressurisation is 
performed in a normal way during the test or by a separate test (e.g. by means 
of pressure sensor on the vehicle). The test vehicle shall be subsequently 
exposed to the first 11 hours of the ambient temperature profile specified for the 
diurnal emission test in Table C4/1 with a maximum deviation of 2 °C at any 
time. The average temperature deviation from the profile, calculated using the 
absolute value of each measured deviation, shall not exceed 1 °C. The ambient 
temperature shall be measured and recorded at least every 10 minutes. 
6.6.1.7 
Carbon canister puff loss loading 
6.6.1.7.1 
Fuel tank depressurisation before refuelling 
 
The manufacturer shall ensure that the refuelling operation cannot be initiated 
before the sealed fuel tank system is fully depressurised to a pressure less than 
2.5 kPa above ambient pressure in normal vehicle operation and use. At the 
request of the Test Agency, the manufacturer shall provide detailed information 
or demonstrate proof of operation (e.g. by means of pressure sensor on the 
vehicle). Any other technical solution may be allowed provided that a safe 
refuelling operation is ensured and that no excessive emissions are released to 
the atmosphere before the refuelling device is connected to the vehicle.  
6.6.1.7.2 
Within 15 minutes after the ambient temperature has reached 35 °C, the tank 
relief valve shall be opened to load the carbon canister. This loading procedure 
may be performed either inside or outside an enclosure. The carbon canister 



--- PAGE 550 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 550 of 762 
 
loaded according to this paragraph shall be disconnected and shall be kept in the 
soak area. 
6.6.1.8 
Measurement of depressurisation puff loss overflow 
 
The depressurisation puff loss overflow shall be measured using the process in 
either paragraph 6.6.1.8.1. or 6.6.1.8.2. of this annex. 
6.6.1.8.1 
The depressurisation puff loss overflow from the vehicle carbon canister may 
be measured by using an additional carbon canister identical to the vehicle's 
carbon canister but not necessarily aged. The additional carbon canister shall be 
fully purged with dry air prior to loading and shall be connected directly at the 
outlet of the vehicle's canister with the shortest possible tube. The additional 
carbon canister shall be weighed before and after the procedure described in 
paragraph 6.6.1.7. of this annex. 
6.6.1.8.2 
The depressurisation puff loss overflow from the vehicle carbon canister during 
its depressurisation may be measured using a SHED. 
 
Within 15 minutes after the ambient temperature has reached 35°C as described 
in paragraph 6.6.1.6. of this annex, the chamber shall be sealed and the 
measurement procedure shall be started.  
 
The hydrocarbon analyser shall be zeroed and spanned, after which the 
hydrocarbon concentration (CHCi), temperature (Ti) and barometric pressure (Pi) 
shall be measured to give the initial readings CHCi, Pi and Ti for the sealed tank 
depressurisation puff loss overflow determination 
 
The ambient temperature T of the enclosure shall not be less than 25°C during 
the measurement procedure 
 
At the end of the procedure described in paragraph 6.6.1.7.2. of this annex, the 
hydrocarbon concentration (CHCf) in the chamber shall be measured after 
300 ± 5 seconds. The temperature (Tf) and the barometric pressure (Pf) shall also 
be measured. These are the final readings CHCf, Pf and Tf for the sealed tank 
depressurisation puff loss overflow. 
 
The sealed tank puff loss overflow result shall be calculated according to 
paragraph 7.1. of this annex and recorded. 
6.6.1.8.3 
There shall be no change in weight of the additional carbon canister when testing 
according to paragraph 6.6.1.8.1. or the result of the SHED measurement when 
testing according to paragraph 6.6.1.8.2., within the tolerance of ± 0.5 gram. 
6.6.1.9 
Soak 
 
After completing puff loss loading the vehicle carbon canister shall be replaced 
with a dummy carbon canister (of the same specification as the original but not 
necessarily aged), the vehicle shall then be soaked at 23 ±2 °C for 6 to 36 hours 
to stabilise the vehicle temperature. 



--- PAGE 551 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 551 of 762 
 
6.6.1.9.1 
REESS charge 
 
For OVC-HEVs, the REESS shall be fully charged in accordance with the 
charging requirements described in paragraph 2.2.3. of Appendix 4 to Annex B8 
during the soaking described in paragraph 6.6.1.9. of this annex. 
6.6.1.10 
Fuel drain and refill 
 
The fuel tank of the vehicle shall be drained and filled up to 40 ±2 per cent of 
the tank's nominal capacity with reference fuel at a temperature of 18 °C ±2 °C. 
6.6.1.11 
Soak 
 
The vehicle shall be subsequently parked for a minimum of 6 hours to a 
maximum of 36 hours in the soak area at 20 °C ±2 °C to stabilise the fuel 
temperature.  
6.6.1.12 
Fuel tank depressurisation 
 
The tank pressure shall be subsequently released so as not to abnormally raise 
the inside pressure of the fuel tank. This may be done by opening the fuel cap 
of the vehicle. Regardless of the method of depressurisation, the vehicle shall 
be returned to its original condition within 1 minute. After this action, the 
vehicle carbon canister shall be connected again. 
6.6.1.13 
The procedures in paragraphs 6.5.6. to 6.5.9.8. inclusive of this annex shall be 
followed. 
6.6.2 
In the case that the fuel tank relief pressure is lower than 30 kPa 
 
The test shall be performed as described in paragraphs 6.6.1.1. to 6.6.1.13. 
inclusive of this annex. However, in this case, the ambient temperature 
described in paragraph 6.5.9.1. of this annex shall be replaced by the profile 
specified in Table C4/2 of this annex for the diurnal emission test.  
 
Table C4/2 
Ambient temperature profile of the alternative sequence for sealed fuel 
tank system 
 
Time (hours) 
Temperature (°C) 
 
0/24 
20.0 
 
1 
20.4 
 
2 
20.8 
 
3 
21.7 
 
4 
23.9 
 
5 
26.1 
 
6 
28.5 
 
7 
31.4 
 
8 
33.8 
 
9 
35.6 
 
10 
37.1 



--- PAGE 552 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 552 of 762 
 
 
Table C4/2 
Ambient temperature profile of the alternative sequence for sealed fuel 
tank system 
 
Time (hours) 
Temperature (°C) 
 
11 
38.0 
 
12 
37.7 
 
13 
36.4 
 
14 
34.2 
 
15 
31.9 
 
16 
29.9 
 
17 
28.2 
 
18 
26.2 
 
19 
24.7 
 
20 
23.5 
 
21 
22.3 
 
22 
21.0 
 
23 
20.2 
6.7 
Stand-alone test procedure for sealed fuel tank systems 
6.7.1 
Measurement of depressurisation puff loss loading mass 
6.7.1.1 
The procedures in paragraphs 6.6.1.1. to 6.6.1.7.2. inclusive of this annex shall 
be performed. The depressurisation puff loss loading mass is defined as the 
difference in weight of the vehicle carbon canister before paragraph 6.6.1.6. of 
this annex is applied and after paragraph 6.6.1.7.2. of this annex is applied. 
6.7.1.2 
The depressurisation puff loss overflow from the vehicle carbon canister shall 
be measured according to paragraphs 6.6.1.8.1. and 6.6.1.8.2. inclusive of this 
Annex and fulfil the requirements of paragraph 6.6.1.8.3. in this annex. 
6.7.2 
Hot soak and diurnal breathing evaporative emissions test 
6.7.2.1 
In the case that the fuel tank relief pressure is greater than or equal to 30 kPa 
6.7.2.1.1 
The test shall be performed as described in paragraphs 6.5.1. to 6.5.3. and 
6.6.1.9. to 6.6.1.9.1. inclusive of this annex. 
6.7.2.1.2 
The carbon canister shall be aged according to the sequence described in 
paragraph 5.1. to 5.1.3.1.3. inclusive of this annex and shall be loaded and 
purged according to paragraph 6.6.1.5. of this annex. 
6.7.2.1.3 
The aged carbon canister shall subsequently be loaded according to the 
procedure described in paragraph 6.5.5.4. However, instead of loading to 
breakthrough as described in paragraph 6.5.5.4.4., the total loading mass shall 
be determined in accordance with paragraph 6.7.1.1. of this annex. At the 
request of the manufacturer, the reference fuel may alternatively be used instead 
of butane. The carbon canister shall be disconnected 



--- PAGE 553 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 553 of 762 
 
6.7.2.1.4 
The procedures in paragraphs 6.6.1.10. to 6.6.1.13. inclusive of this annex shall 
be followed. 
6.7.2.2 
In the case that the fuel tank relief pressure is lower than 30 kPa 
 
The test shall be performed as described in paragraphs 6.7.2.1.1. to 6.7.2.1.4. 
inclusive of this annex. However, in this case, the ambient temperature 
described in paragraph 6.5.9.1. of this annex shall be modified in accordance 
with the profile specified in Table A1/1 of this annex for the diurnal emission 
test. 
7.0 
Calculation of evaporative test results 
7.1 
The evaporative emission tests described in paragraphs 6. to 6.7.2.2. inclusive 
of this annex allow the hydrocarbon emissions from the puff loss overflow, 
diurnal and hot soak tests to be calculated. Evaporative losses from each of these 
tests shall be calculated using the initial and final hydrocarbon concentrations, 
temperatures and pressures in the enclosure, together with the net enclosure 
volume 
 
The following equation shall be used: 
 
MHC= 𝑘 ×  𝑉 × (
𝐶𝐻𝐶𝑓×𝑃𝑓
𝑇𝑓
− 
𝐶𝐻𝐶𝑖×𝑃𝑖
𝑇𝑖
) + 𝑀𝐻𝐶,𝑜𝑢𝑡−𝑀𝐻𝐶,𝑖𝑛 
 
Where; 
 
MHC  
is the mass of hydrocarbons, grams; 
 
MHC,out      is the mass of hydrocarbons exiting the enclosure in the case of fixed 
volume enclosures for diurnal emission testing, grams; 
 
MHC,in  
is the mass of hydrocarbon entering the enclosure in the case of fixed 
volume enclosures for diurnal emission testing, grams; 
 
CHC  
is the measured hydrocarbon concentration in the enclosure, ppm 
volume in C1 equivalent; 
 
V  
is the net enclosure volume corrected for the volume of the vehicle 
with the windows and the luggage compartment open, m3. If the 
volume of the vehicle is not known, a volume of 1.42 m3 shall be 
subtracted; 
 
T  
is the ambient chamber temperature, K; 
 
P  
is the barometric pressure, kPa; 
 
H/C  
is the hydrogen to carbon ratio 
 
Where; 



--- PAGE 554 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 554 of 762 
 
 
H/C 
is taken to be 2.33 for puff loss overflow measurement in SHED and 
diurnal test losses; 
 
H/C 
is taken to be 2.20 for hot soak losses; 
 
H/C 
is taken to be 2.67 for calibration;  
 
k  
is 1.2 × 10-4 × (12 + H/C), in (g × K/(m³ × kPa)); 
 
i  
is the initial reading 
 
f  
is the final reading; 
7.1.1 
As an alternative to the equation in paragraph 7.1. of this annex, for variable 
volume enclosures the following equation may be used at the choice of the 
manufacturer: 
 
MHC= 𝑘 ×  𝑉 ×
𝑃𝑖
𝑇𝑖(𝐶𝐻𝐶𝑓− 𝐶𝐻𝑐𝑖) 
 
Where; 
 
MHC  is the mass of hydrocarbons, grams; 
 
CHC  is the measured hydrocarbon concentration in the enclosure, ppm volume 
in C1 equivalent 
 
V  
is the net enclosure volume corrected for the volume of the vehicle with 
the windows and the luggage compartment open, m3. If the volume of the 
vehicle is not known, a volume of 1.42 m3 shall be subtracted 
 
Ti 
is the initial ambient chamber temperature, K 
 
Pi 
is the initial barometric pressure, kPa 
 
H/C  is the hydrogen to carbon ratio; 
 
H/C is taken to be 2.33 for puff loss overflow measurement in SHED and 
diurnal test losses;  
 
H/C is taken to be 2.20 for hot soak losses 
 
H/C is taken to be 2.67 for calibration; 
 
k  
is 1.2 × 10-4 × (12 + H/C), in (g × K/(m³ × kPa)) 
 
i  
is the initial reading; 
 
f  
is the final reading. 
7.2 
The result of (MHS + MD1 + MD2 + (2 × PF)) shall be below the limit defined in 
paragraph 6.6.2. of this Regulation. 



--- PAGE 555 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 555 of 762 
 
8.0 
Test report 
 
The test report shall contain at least the following: 
 
(a) 
Description of the soak periods, including time and mean  
temperatures; 
 
(b) 
Description of aged carbon canister used and reference to exact 
ageing report; 
 
(c) 
Mean temperature during the hot soak test; 
 
(d) 
Measurement during hot soak test, HSL; 
 
(e) 
Measurement of first diurnal, DL1st day; 
 
(f) 
Measurement of second diurnal, DL2nd day; 
 
(g) 
Final evaporative test result, calculated according to paragraph 7. of 
this annex; 
 
(h) 
Declared fuel tank relief pressure of the system (for sealed tank 
systems); 
 
(i) 
Puff loss loading value (in the case of using 'stand-alone test 
procedure' described in paragraph 6.7. of this annex). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 556 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 556 of 762 
 
Annex C4 
Type V Test – Durability 
(Description of the endurance test for verifying the durability of pollution control device) 
1.0 
Introduction 
1.1 
This annex describes the test for verifying the durability of anti-pollution 
devices equipping vehicles with positive ignition or compression-ignition 
engines. The deterioration factors are used to establish compliance with the 
requirements of the appropriate emissions limits as per Gazette Notification 
during the target useful life of the vehicle. 
 
The durability requirements shall be demonstrated using one of the options set 
out in paragraphs 1.2. and 1.3. below or at the choice of the manufacturer the 
assigned deterioration factors as per Gazette Notification. The target useful life 
is 1,60,000 km 
1.2 
The whole vehicle durability test shall preferably be performed on a vehicle 
with the cycle energy demand of the VH (as defined in paragraph 4.2.1.1.2. of 
Annex B4) with the highest cycle energy demand of all of the Interpolation 
Families to be included in the durability family and shall be driven on a test 
track, on the road, or on a chassis dynamometer. The cycle energy of the test 
vehicle may be further increased to cover future extensions. 
1.3 
The manufacturer may choose to use a bench ageing durability test. The 
technical requirements for this test are set out in paragraph 2.2. of this annex. 
1.4 
At the request of the manufacturer, the Type I test may be carried out applying 
the assigned deterioration factors before the whole vehicle or bench ageing 
durability test has been completed. On completion of the whole vehicle or bench 
ageing durability test, the type approval results may be amended by replacing 
the assigned deterioration factors with those measured in the whole vehicle or 
bench ageing durability test. 
1.5 
Reserved 
2.0 
Technical requirements 
2.1 
As the operating cycle for the whole vehicle durability test, the vehicle 
manufacturer shall use the Standard Road Cycle (SRC) described in Appendix 3 
to this annex. This test cycle shall be conducted until the vehicle has covered its 
target useful life. 
 
As the operating cycle for the whole vehicle durability test, the vehicle 
manufacturer shall choose one of the driving cycles described in Appendix 3b 
to this annex. 
2.2 
Bench ageing durability test 



--- PAGE 557 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 557 of 762 
 
2.2.1 
For the execution of the bench ageing durability tests the vehicle used for the 
catalyst and/or particle filter temperature measurements shall be VH. 
 
The fuel to be used during the test shall be the one specified in paragraph 4. of 
this annex. 
 
The fuel to be used during the test shall be the one specified in paragraph 4. of 
this annex. 
2.3 
The bench ageing durability test to be used shall be the one appropriate to the 
type of engine, as detailed in paragraphs 2.3.1. and 2.3.2. of this annex. 
2.3.1 
Vehicles with positive ignition engines 
2.3.1.1 
The bench ageing procedure requires the installation of the whole exhaust after-
treatment system on an ageing bench. 
 
Ageing on the bench shall be conducted by following the SBC for the period of 
time calculated from the Bench Ageing Time (BAT) equation. The BAT 
equation requires, as input, catalyst time-at-temperature data measured on the 
SRC, as described in paragraph 2.3.1.3. 
2.3.1.2 
SBC. Standard catalyst bench ageing shall be conducted following the SBC. 
The SBC shall be run for the period of time calculated from the BAT equation. 
The SBC is described in Appendix 1 to this annex. 
2.3.1.3 
Catalyst time-at-temperature data. Catalyst temperature shall be measured 
during at least two full cycles of the SRC cycle as described in Appendix 3 to 
this annex. 
 
Catalyst temperature shall be measured at the highest temperature location in 
the hottest catalyst on the test vehicle. Alternatively, the temperature may be 
measured at another location providing that it is adjusted to represent the 
temperature measured at the hottest location using good engineering judgement 
 
Catalyst temperature shall be measured at a minimum rate of one hertz (one 
measurement per second). 
 
The measured catalyst temperature results shall be tabulated into a histogram 
with temperature groups of no larger than 25 °C. 
2.3.1.4 
The Bench Ageing Time (BAT) shall be calculated using the BAT equation as 
follows: 
 
te for a temperature bin = th e((R/Tr)-(R/Tv)) 
 
Total te = Sum of te over all the temperature groups 
 
Bench Ageing Time = A (Total te) 
 
Where: 



--- PAGE 558 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 558 of 762 
 
 
Bench Ageing Time = A (Total te) 
 
Where: 
 
A                is equal to 1.1 This value adjusts the catalyst ageing time to account 
for deterioration from sources other than thermal ageing of the 
catalyst. 
 
R                is Catalyst thermal reactivity which is equal to 17,500 
 
th              is the    time (in hours) measured within the prescribed temperature  
bin of the vehicle's catalyst temperature histogram adjusted to a full 
useful life basis e.g., if the histogram represented 400 km, and useful 
life is 1,60,000 km; all histogram time entries would be multiplied 
by 400 (1,60,000/400). 
 
Total te       is the equivalent time (in hours) to age the catalyst at the temperature 
of Tr on the catalyst ageing bench using the catalyst ageing cycle to 
produce the same amount of deterioration experienced by the 
catalyst due to thermal deactivation over the 1,60,000 km. 
 
te for a bin is the equivalent time (in hours) to age the catalyst at the temperature 
of Tr on the catalyst ageing bench using the catalyst ageing cycle to 
produce the same amount of deterioration experienced by the 
catalyst due to thermal deactivation at the temperature bin of Tv over 
160,000 km. 
 
Tr 
is the effective reference temperature (in K) of the catalyst on the  
catalyst bench run on the bench ageing cycle. The effective 
temperature is the constant temperature that would result in the same 
amount of ageing as the various temperatures experienced during the 
bench ageing cycle. 
 
Tv 
is the mid-point temperature (in K) of the temperature bin of the 
vehicle on-road catalyst temperature histogram. 
2.3.1.5 
Effective reference temperature on the SBC. The effective reference 
temperature of the SBC shall be determined for the actual catalyst system design 
and actual ageing bench which will be used using the following procedures: 
 
(a) 
 
Measure time-at-temperature data in the catalyst system on the 
catalyst ageing bench following the SBC. Catalyst temperature shall 
be measured at the highest temperature location of the hottest 
catalyst in the system. Alternatively, the temperature may be 
measured at another location providing that it is adjusted to represent 
the temperature measured at the hottest location. 
 
 
Catalyst temperature shall be measured at a minimum rate of one 
hertz (one measurement per second) during at least 20 minutes of 
bench ageing. The measured catalyst temperature results shall be 



--- PAGE 559 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 559 of 762 
 
tabulated into a histogram with temperature groups of no larger than 
10 °C. 
 
(b) 
 
The BAT equation shall be used to calculate the effective reference 
temperature by iterative changes to the reference temperature (Tr) 
until the calculated ageing time equals or exceeds the actual time 
represented in the catalyst temperature histogram. The resulting 
temperature is the effective reference temperature on the SBC for 
that catalyst system and ageing bench. 
2.3.1.6 
Catalyst ageing bench. The catalyst ageing bench shall follow the SBC and 
deliver the appropriate exhaust flow, exhaust constituents, and exhaust 
temperature at the face of the catalyst. 
 
All bench ageing equipment and procedures shall record appropriate 
information (such as measured A/F ratios and time-at-temperature in the 
catalyst) to assure that sufficient ageing has actually occurred. 
2.3.1.7 
Required testing. For calculating deterioration factors at least two Type I tests 
before bench ageing of the emission control hardware and at least two Type I 
tests after the bench-aged emission hardware is reinstalled have to be performed 
on the test vehicle. 
 
Additional testing may be conducted by the manufacturer. Calculation of the 
deterioration factors has to be done according to the calculation method as 
specified in paragraph 7. of this annex. 
2.3.2 
Vehicles with compression ignition engines 
2.3.2.1 
The following bench ageing procedure is applicable for compression-ignition 
vehicles including hybrid vehicles. 
 
The bench ageing procedure requires the installation of the after-treatment 
system on an after-treatment system ageing bench. 
 
In case of exhaust after-treatment system using reagent, the whole injection 
system shall be fitted and working for ageing. 
 
Ageing on the bench is conducted by following the Standard Diesel Bench 
Cycle (SDBC) for the number of regenerations/desulphurisations calculated 
from the Bench Ageing Duration (BAD) equation. 
2.3.2.2 
SDBC. Standard bench ageing is conducted following the SDBC. The SDBC 
shall be run for the period of time calculated from the BAD equation. The SDBC 
is described in Appendix 2 to this annex. 
2.3.2.3 
Regeneration data. Regeneration intervals shall be measured during at least 10 
full cycles of the SRC cycle as described in Appendix 3 to this annex. As an 
alternative the intervals from the Ki determination may be used. 



--- PAGE 560 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 560 of 762 
 
2.3.2.4 
Diesel bench ageing duration. Bench ageing duration is calculated using the 
BAD equation as follows: 
2.3.2.5 
Ageing bench. The ageing bench shall follow the SDBC and deliver appropriate 
exhaust flow, exhaust constituents, and exhaust temperature to the after-
treatment system inlet. 
2.3.2.6 
Required testing. For calculating deterioration factors at least two Type I tests 
before bench ageing of the emission control hardware and at least two Type I 
tests after the bench-aged emission hardware is reinstalled have to be performed 
on VH. Additional testing may be conducted by the manufacturer. Calculation 
of the deterioration factors shall be done according to the calculation method set 
out in paragraph 7. of this annex and with the additional requirements contained 
in this regulation. 
3.0 
Test vehicle 
3.1 
The vehicle shall be VH. It shall be in good mechanical order; the engine and 
the anti-pollution devices shall be new. The vehicle may be the same as that 
presented for the Type I test; in this case the Type I test has to be done after the 
vehicle has run at least 3,000 km of the ageing cycle of Appendix 3. to this 
annex. 
3.1.1 
Special requirements for hybrid vehicles are provided in Appendix 4 to this 
annex. 
4.0 
Fuel 
 
The durability test is conducted with a suitable commercially available fuel. 
5.0 
Vehicle maintenance and adjustments 
 
Maintenance, adjustments as well as the use of the test vehicle's controls shall 
be those recommended by the manufacturer. If during the execution of the 
whole vehicle durability test the vehicle experiences a failure not related to 
emissions and/or fuel consumption and/or energy consumption, the 
manufacturer can fix the vehicle and continue with the durability test. Otherwise 
the manufacturer shall consult the Test Agency to find a commonly agreed 
solution. 
6.0 
Vehicle operation on track, road or on chassis dynamometer 
6.1 
Operating cycle 
 
During operation on track, road or on roller test bench, the distance shall be 
covered according to the driving schedule described in Appendix 3 of this 
annex. 
6.2 
The durability test, or if the manufacturer has chosen, the modified durability 
test shall be conducted until the vehicle has covered its target useful life. 



--- PAGE 561 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 561 of 762 
 
6.3 
Test equipment 
6.3.1 
Chassis dynamometer 
6.3.1.1 
When the durability test is performed on a chassis dynamometer, the 
dynamometer shall enable the cycle described in Appendix 3 of this annex to be 
carried out. In particular, it shall be equipped with systems simulating inertia 
and resistance to progress. 
6.3.1.2 
The road load coefficients to be used shall be those for vehicle high (VH). 
6.3.1.3 
The vehicle cooling system should enable the vehicle to operate at temperatures 
similar to those obtained on road (oil, water, exhaust system, etc.). 
6.3.1.4 
Certain other test bench adjustments and features are deemed to be identical, 
where necessary, to those described in Annex B5 to this Regulation (inertia, for 
example, which may be mechanical or electronic). 
6.3.1.5 
The vehicle may be moved, where necessary, to a different bench in order to 
conduct emission measurement tests. 
6.3.2 
Operation on track or road 
 
When the durability test is completed on track or road, the test mass of the 
vehicle shall be the same as that retained for tests conducted on a chassis 
dynamometer. 
7.0 
Measuring emissions of pollutants 
 
A first test is carried out when the vehicle has reached a mileage between 
3,000 km and 5,000 km. Further tests are carried out at 20,000 km (±400 km) 
and then every 20,000 km (±400 km) or more frequently, at regular intervals 
until having covered the target useful life. Exhaust emissions are measured in 
accordance with the Type I Test as defined in Annex B6 of this Regulation. At 
the choice of the manufacturer any of the above tests can be repeated. In such a 
case the average value of all the repeated tests shall be considered as a single 
value for the relevant mileage. 
 
The limit values to be complied with are those as per Gazette Notification. 
 
In the case of vehicles equipped with periodically regenerating systems as defined 
in paragraph 3.8.1. of this Regulation, it shall be checked that the vehicle is not 
approaching a regeneration period. If this is the case, the vehicle shall be driven 
until the end of the regeneration. If a regeneration occurs during the emissions 
measurement, a new test (including preconditioning) shall be performed, and the 
first result not taken into account. 
 
All exhaust emissions results shall be plotted as a function of the running 
distance on the system rounded to the nearest kilometre and the best fit straight 
line fitted by the method of least squares shall be drawn through all these data 
points. 



--- PAGE 562 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 562 of 762 
 
 
The data will be acceptable for use in the calculation of the deterioration factor 
only if the interpolated 5,000 km and target useful life points on this line are 
within the above mentioned limits. 
 
The data are still acceptable when a best fit straight line crosses an applicable 
limit with a negative slope (the 5,000 km interpolated point is higher than the 
target useful life point) but the target useful life actual data point is below the 
limit. 
7.1 
A multiplicative exhaust emission deterioration factor shall be calculated for 
each pollutant as follows: 
 
𝐷. 𝐸. 𝐹. = 𝑀𝑖2
𝑀𝑖1
 
 
Where: 
 
Mi1 is a (As specified in paragraph 7.0.) mass emission of the  pollutant i in 
g/km interpolated to 5,000 km, 
 
Mi2 is a mass emission of the pollutant i in g/km interpolated to the respective 
target useful life 
 
These interpolated values shall be carried out to a minimum of four places to 
the right of the decimal point before dividing one by the other to determine the 
deterioration factor. The result shall be rounded to three places to the right of 
the decimal point. 
 
If a deterioration factor is less than one, it is deemed to be equal to one. 
 
At the request of a manufacturer, an additive exhaust emission deterioration 
factor shall be calculated for each pollutant as follows: 
 
D . E . F . = Mi2 – Mi1 
 
If the additive deterioration factor calculated with the above formula is negative, 
then it shall be put equal to zero. 
 
These additive deterioration factors shall follow the same rules described for the 
multiplicative deterioration factors 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex C4- Appendix 1 
Standard Bench Cycle (SBC) 
1.0 
Introduction 



--- PAGE 563 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 563 of 762 
 
 
The standard ageing durability procedure consists of ageing a catalyst/oxygen 
and/or air fuel ratio sensor system on an ageing bench which follows the Standard 
Bench Cycle (SBC) described in this appendix. The SBC requires the use of an 
ageing bench with an engine as the source of feed gas for the catalyst. The SBC is 
a 60-second cycle which is repeated as necessary on the ageing bench to conduct 
ageing for the required period of time. The SBC is defined based on the catalyst 
temperature, engine air/fuel (A/F) ratio, and the amount of secondary air injection 
which is added in front of the first catalyst. 
2.0 
Catalyst temperature control 
2.1 
Catalyst temperature shall be measured in the catalyst bed at the location where the 
highest temperature occurs in the hottest catalyst. Alternatively, the feed gas 
temperature may be measured and converted to catalyst bed temperature using a 
linear transform calculated from correlation data collected on the catalyst design 
and ageing bench to be used in the ageing process 
2.2 
Control the catalyst temperature at stoichiometric operation (01 to 40 seconds on 
the cycle) to a minimum of 800 °C (±10 °C) by selecting the appropriate engine 
speed, load, and spark timing for the engine. Control the maximum catalyst 
temperature that occurs during the cycle to 890 °C (±10 °C) by selecting the 
appropriate A/F ratio of the engine during the "rich" phase described in Table A12 
App1/2. 
2.3 
If a low control temperature other than 800 °C is utilized, the high control 
temperature shall be 90 °C higher than the low control temperature. 
Table A12 App1/2 
Standard Bench Cycle (SBC) 
 
Time 
(seconds) 
Engine air/fuel ratio 
Secondary air 
injection 
 
1-40 
Stoichiometric with load, spark timing 
and engine speed controlled to achieve 
a minimum catalyst temperature of 
800 °C 
None 
 
41-45 
"Rich" (A/F ratio selected to achieve a 
maximum catalyst temperature over 
the entire cycle of 890 °C or 90 °C 
higher 
than 
lower 
control 
temperature) 
None 
 
46-55 
"Rich" (A/F ratio selected to achieve a 
maximum catalyst temperature over 
the entire cycle of 890 °C or 90 °C 
higher 
than 
lower 
control 
temperature) 
3 % (±1 %) 



--- PAGE 564 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 564 of 762 
 
 
56-60 
Stoichiometric with load, spark timing 
and engine speed controlled to achieve 
a minimum catalyst temperature of 
800 °C 
3 % (±1 %) 
 
Figure A12 App1/2 
Standard Bench Cycle 
 
 
3.0 
Ageing bench equipment and procedures 
3.1 
Ageing bench configuration. The ageing bench shall provide the appropriate 
exhaust flow rate, temperature, air-fuel ratio, exhaust constituents and secondary air 
injection at the inlet face of the catalyst. 
 
The standard ageing bench consists of an engine, engine controller, and engine 
dynamometer. Other configurations may be acceptable (e.g. whole vehicle on a 
dynamometer, or a burner that provides the correct exhaust conditions), as long as 
the catalyst inlet conditions and control features specified in this appendix are met. 
 
A single ageing bench may have the exhaust flow split into several streams 
providing that each exhaust stream meets the requirements of this appendix. If the 
bench has more than one exhaust stream, multiple catalyst systems may be aged 
simultaneously. 
3.2 
Exhaust system installation. The entire catalyst(s)-plus-oxygen and/or air fuel ratio 
sensor(s) system, together with all exhaust piping which connects these 
components, will be installed on the bench. For engines with multiple exhaust 
streams (such as some V6 and V8 engines), each bank of the exhaust system will 
be installed separately on the bench in parallel. 
 
 
For exhaust systems that contain multiple in-line catalysts, the entire catalyst system 
including all catalysts, all oxygen and/or air fuel ratio sensors and the associated 
exhaust piping will be installed as a unit for ageing. Alternatively, each individual 
catalyst may be separately aged for the appropriate period of time. 
3.3 
Temperature measurement. Catalyst temperature shall be measured using a 
thermocouple placed in the catalyst bed at the location where the highest 



--- PAGE 565 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 565 of 762 
 
temperature occurs in the hottest catalyst. Alternatively, the feed gas temperature 
just before the catalyst inlet face may be measured and converted to catalyst bed 
temperature using a linear transform calculated from correlation data collected on 
the catalyst design and ageing bench to be used in the ageing process. The catalyst 
temperature shall be stored digitally at the speed of 1 Hz 
3.4 
Air/Fuel measurement. Provisions shall be made for the measurement of the air/fuel 
(A/F) ratio (such as a wide-range oxygen sensor) as close as possible to the catalyst 
inlet and outlet flanges. The information from these sensors shall be stored digitally 
at the speed of 1 Hz. 
3.5 
Exhaust flow balance. Provisions shall be made to assure that the proper amount of 
exhaust (measured in grams/second at stoichiometry, with a tolerance of ±5 
grams/second) flows through each catalyst system that is being aged on the bench. 
 
The proper flow rate is determined based upon the exhaust flow that would occur 
in the original vehicle’s engine at the steady state engine speed and load selected 
for the bench ageing in paragraph 3.6. of this appendix. 
3.6 
Setup. The engine speed, load, and spark timing are selected to achieve a catalyst 
bed temperature of 800 °C (±10 °C) at steady-state stoichiometric operation. 
 
The air injection system is set to provide the necessary air flow to produce 3.0 per 
cent oxygen (±0.1 %) in the steady-state stoichiometric exhaust stream just in front 
of the first catalyst. A typical reading at the upstream A/F measurement point 
(required in paragraph 3.4. of this appendix) is lambda 1.16 (which is approximately 
3 per cent oxygen). 
 
With the air injection on, set the "Rich" A/F ratio to produce a catalyst bed 
temperature of 890 °C (±10 °C). A typical A/F value for this step is lambda 0.94 
(approximately 2 per cent CO). 
3.7 
Ageing cycle. The standard bench ageing procedures use the SBC. The SBC is 
repeated until the amount of ageing calculated from the BAT equation is achieved. 
3.8 
Quality assurance. The temperatures and A/F ratio in paragraphs 3.3. and 3.4. of 
this appendix shall be reviewed periodically (at least every 50 hours) during ageing. 
Necessary adjustments shall be made to assure that the SBC is being appropriately 
followed throughout the ageing process. 
 
After the ageing has been completed, the catalyst time-at-temperature collected 
during the ageing process shall be tabulated into a histogram with temperature 
groups of no larger than 10 °C. The BAT equation and the calculated effective 
reference temperature for the ageing cycle according to paragraph 2.3.1.4. of this 
annex will be used to determine if the appropriate amount of thermal ageing of the 
catalyst has in fact occurred. Bench ageing will be extended if the thermal effect of 
the calculated ageing time is not at least 95 per cent of the target thermal ageing. 
3.9 
Start up and Shutdown. Care should be taken to assure that the maximum catalyst 
temperature for rapid deterioration (e.g. 1,050 °C) does not occur during start up or 



--- PAGE 566 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 566 of 762 
 
shut down. Special low temperature start up and shutdown procedures may be used 
to alleviate this concern. 
4.0 
Experimentally determining the R-factor for bench ageing durability procedures 
4.1 
The R-Factor is the catalyst thermal reactivity coefficient used in the BAT equation. 
Manufacturers may determine the value of R experimentally using the following 
procedures. 
4.1.1 
Using the applicable bench cycle and ageing bench hardware, age several catalysts 
(minimum of 3 of the same catalyst design) at different control temperatures 
between the normal operating temperature and the damage limit temperature. 
Measure emissions (or catalyst inefficiency (1-catalyst efficiency)) for each exhaust 
constituent. Assure that the final testing yields data between one- and two-times the 
emission standard. 
4.1.2 
Estimate the value of R and calculate the effective reference temperature (Tr) for 
the bench ageing cycle for each control temperature according to paragraph 2.3.1.4. 
of this annex. 
4.1.3 
Plot emissions (or catalyst inefficiency) versus ageing time for each catalyst. 
Calculate the least-squared best-fit line through the data. For the data set to be useful 
for this purpose the data should have an approximately common intercept between 
0 and 6,400 km. See Figure A12 App1/3 for an example. 
4.1.4 
Calculate the slope of the best-fit line for each ageing temperature. 
 
Figure A12 App1/3 
Example of catalyst ageing 
 
 
4.1.5 
Plot the natural log (ln) of the slope of each best-fit line (determined in paragraph 
4.1.4. of this appendix) along the vertical axis, versus the inverse of ageing 
temperature (1/(ageing temperature, deg K)) along the horizontal axis. Calculate the 
least squared best-fit lines through the data. The slope of the line is the R-factor. 
See Figure A12 App1/4 for an example. 
4.1.6 
Compare the R-factor to the initial value that was used in paragraph 4.1.2. of this 
appendix. If the calculated R-factor differs from the initial value by more than 5 per 
Catalyst Ageing
Ageing Time (hours)
Emissions
Temp A
Temp B
Temp C
2 x std
1 x std
4K



--- PAGE 567 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 567 of 762 
 
cent, choose a new R-factor that is between the initial and calculated values, and 
then repeat the steps in paragraphs 4.1.2. to 4.1.6. of this appendix to derive a new 
R-factor. Repeat this process until the calculated R-factor is within 5 per cent of the 
initially assumed R-factor. 
4.1.7 
Compare the R-factor determined separately for each exhaust constituent. Use the 
lowest R-factor (worst case) for the BAT equation. 
 
Figure A12 App1/4 
Determining the R-Factor 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex C4- Appendix 2 
Standard Diesel Bench Cycle (SDBC) 
1.0 
Introduction 



--- PAGE 568 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 568 of 762 
 
 
For particulate filters, the number of regenerations is critical to the ageing process. 
For systems that require desulphurisation cycles (e.g. NOx storage catalysts), this 
process is also significant. 
 
The standard diesel bench ageing durability procedure consists of ageing an after-
treatment system on an ageing bench which follows the SDBC described in this 
appendix. The SDBC requires use of an ageing bench with an engine as the source 
of feed gas for the system. 
 
During the SDBC, the regeneration/desulphurisation strategies of the system shall 
remain in normal operating condition. 
2.0 
The SDBC reproduces the engine speed and load conditions that are encountered 
in the SRC cycle as appropriate to the period for which durability is to be 
determined. In order to accelerate the process of ageing, the engine settings on the 
test bench may be modified to reduce the system loading times. For example the 
fuel injection timing or EGR strategy may be modified. 
3.0 
Ageing bench equipment and procedures 
3.1 
The standard ageing bench consists of an engine, engine controller, and engine 
dynamometer. Other configurations may be acceptable (e.g. whole vehicle on a 
dynamometer, or a burner that provides the correct exhaust conditions), as long as 
the after-treatment system inlet conditions and control features specified in this 
appendix are met. 
 
A single ageing bench may have the exhaust flow split into several streams 
provided that each exhaust stream meets the requirements of this appendix. If the 
bench has more than one exhaust stream, multiple after-treatment systems may be 
aged simultaneously. 
3.2 
Exhaust system installation. The entire after-treatment system, together with all 
exhaust piping which connects these components, will be installed on the bench. 
For engines with multiple exhaust streams (such as some V6 and V8 engines), each 
bank of the exhaust system will be installed separately on the bench. 
 
The entire after-treatment system will be installed as a unit for ageing. 
Alternatively, each individual component may be separately aged for the 
appropriate period of time. 
 
In case of exhaust after-treatment system using reagent, the whole injection system 
shall be fitted and working for ageing. 
 
 
 
Annex C4 – Appendix 3a 
Standard Road Cycle (SRC) 
1.0 
Introduction 



--- PAGE 569 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 569 of 762 
 
The Standard Road Cycle (SRC) is a kilometre accumulation cycle on VH. 
The vehicle may be run on a test track or on a kilometre accumulation 
dynamometer. 
The cycle consists of 7 laps of a 6 km course. The length of the lap may be 
changed to accommodate the length of the mileage accumulation test track. 
Standard road cycle 
Lap 
Description 
Typical acceleration rate m/s² 
1 
(start engine) idle 10 seconds 
0 
1 
Moderate acceleration to 48 km/h 
1.79 
1 
Cruise at 48 km/h for ¼ lap 
0 
1 
Moderate deceleration to 32 km/h 
-2.23 
1 
Moderate acceleration to 48 km/h 
1.79 
1 
Cruise at 48 km/h for ¼ lap 
0 
1 
Moderate deceleration to stop 
-2.23 
1 
Idle 5 seconds 
0 
1 
Moderate acceleration to 56 km/h 
1.79 
1 
Cruise at 56 km/h for ¼ lap 
0 
1 
Moderate deceleration to 40 km/h 
-2.23 
1 
Moderate acceleration to 56 km/h 
1.79 
1 
Cruise at 56 km/h for ¼ lap 
0 
1 
Moderate deceleration to stop 
-2.23 
2 
Idle 10 seconds 
0 
2 
Moderate acceleration to 64 km/h 
1.34 
2 
Cruise at 64 km/h for ¼ lap 
0 
2 
Moderate deceleration to 48 km/h 
-2.23 
2 
Moderate acceleration to 64 km/h 
1.34 
2 
Cruise at 64 km/h for ¼ lap 
0 



--- PAGE 570 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 570 of 762 
 
2 
Moderate deceleration to stop 
-2.23 
2 
Idle 5 seconds 
0 
2 
Moderate acceleration to 72 km/h 
1.34 
2 
Cruise at 72 km/h for ¼ lap 
0 
2 
Moderate deceleration to 56 km/h 
-2.23 
2 
Moderate acceleration to 72 km/h 
1.34 
2 
Cruise at 72 km/h for ¼ lap 
0 
2 
Moderate deceleration to stop 
-2.23 
3 
Idle 10 seconds 
0 
3 
Hard acceleration to 88 km/h 
1.79 
3 
Cruise at 88 km/h for ¼ lap 
0 
3 
Moderate deceleration to 72 
km/h 
-2.23 
3 
Moderate acceleration to 88 km/h 
0.89 
3 
Cruise at 88 km/h for ¼ lap 
0 
3 
Moderate deceleration to 72 
km/h 
-2.23 
3 
Moderate acceleration to 97 km/h 
0.89 
3 
Cruise at 97 km/h for ¼ lap 
0 
3 
Moderate deceleration to 80 
km/h 
-2.23 
3 
Moderate acceleration to 97 km/h 
0.89 
3 
Cruise at 97 km/h for ¼ lap 
0 
3 
Moderate deceleration to stop 
-1.79 
4 
Idle 10 seconds 
0 
4 
Hard acceleration to 129 km/h 
1.34 
4 
Coast down to 113 km/h 
-0.45 



--- PAGE 571 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 571 of 762 
 
4 
Cruise at 113 km/h for ½ lap 
0 
4 
Moderate deceleration to 80 
km/h 
-1.34 
4 
Moderate acceleration to 105 
km/h 
0.89 
4 
Cruise at 105 km/h for ½ lap 
0 
4 
Moderate deceleration to 80 
km/h 
-1.34 
5 
Moderate acceleration to 121 
km/h 
0.45 
5 
Cruise at 121 km/h for ½ lap 
0 
5 
Moderate deceleration to 80 
km/h 
-1.34 
5 
Light acceleration to 113 km/h 
0.45 
5 
Cruise at 113 km/h for ½ lap 
0 
5 
Moderate deceleration to 80 
km/h 
-1.34 
6 
Moderate acceleration to 113 
km/h 
0.89 
6 
Coast down to 97 km/h 
-0.45 
6 
Cruise at 97 km/h for ½ lap 
0 
6 
Moderate deceleration to 80 
km/h 
-1.79 
6 
Moderate acceleration to 104 
km/h 
0.45 
6 
Cruise at 104 km/h for ½ lap 
0 
6 
Moderate deceleration to stop 
-1.79 
7 
Idle 45 seconds 
0 
7 
Hard acceleration to 88 km/h 
1.79 
7 
Cruise at 88 km/h for ¼ lap 
0 



--- PAGE 572 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 572 of 762 
 
7 
Moderate deceleration to 64 
km/h 
-2.23 
7 
Moderate acceleration to 88 km/h 
0.89 
7 
Cruise at 88 km/h for ¼ lap 
0 
7 
Moderate deceleration to 64 
km/h 
-2.23 
7 
Moderate acceleration to 80 km/h 
0.89 
7 
Cruise at 80 km/h for ¼ lap 
0 
7 
Moderate deceleration to 64 
km/h 
-2.23 
7 
Moderate acceleration to 80 km/h 
0.89 
7 
Cruise at 80 km/h for ¼ lap 
0 
7 
Moderate deceleration to stop 
-2.23 
The standard road cycle is represented graphically in the following figure: 
 
1.0 
Pattern A 
 
 
Driving pattern 
Distance ratio 
 
Normal driving 
All 
elements 
(idling, 
acceleration, deceleration, steady 
speed) shall be operated within 
less than 60km/h 
more than 60 % 
Standard Road Cycle
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
Laps (5.95 km)
Speed (km/h)



--- PAGE 573 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 573 of 762 
 
 
High speed driving Steady speed whichever lower 
100km/h or V_max 
more than 20 % 
 
others 
according 
to 
manufacture 
engineering practice 
no 
specific 
requirement 
as 
long 
as 
maintaining 
the 
above criteria 
2.0 
Pattern B 
 
 
Driving pattern 
Distance ratio 
 
Number of standing 
start 
more than 20 times per hour 
 
 
High speed driving  Steady speed whichever lower 
100km/h or V_max 
more than 8 % 
 
Average speed 
more than 45km/h 
 
 
others 
All 
elements 
(idling, 
acceleration, 
deceleration, 
steady speed) shall be operated. 
Expected more severe driving 
pattern than Table A12/App3b.1 
in term of deterioration 
 
 
Table A12/App3b.1 
 
mod
e 
Driving conditions 
Operation 
time 
(s) 
Cumulative 
time 
(s) 
 
1 
Idling 
10 
10 
 
2 
Acceleration : 0 → 60km/h 
30 
40 
 
3 
Steady speed : 60km/h 
15 
55 
 
4 
Deceleration : 60 → 30 km/h 15 
70 
 
5 
Acceleration : 30 → 60km/h 15 
85 
 
6 
Steady speed : 60km/h 
15 
100 
 
7 
Deceleration : 60 → 0 km/h 30 
130 
 
8 
repeat 1 to 7 nine times 
1,170 
1,300 
 
9 
Idling 
10 
1,310 



--- PAGE 574 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 574 of 762 
 
 
10 
Acceleration : 0 → 100* 
km/h 
40 (50**) 
1,350 (1,360**) 
 
11 
Steady speed : 100km/h 
200 (190**) 
1,550 
 
12 
Deceleration : 100 → 0 km/h 50 
1,600 
 
13 
repeat 1 to 12 until useful life  
 
 
*    whichever lower 100 km/h or V_max 
 
** for vehicles having engine displacement less than or equal to 0.660 litre, 
vehicle length less than or equal to 3.40 m, vehicle width less than or 
equal to 1.48 m, and vehicle height less than or equal to 2.00 m, seats less 
than or equal to 3 in addition to a driver, and payload less than or equal 
to 350 kg 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex C4- Appendix 4 
Special Requirements for Hybrid Vehicles 



--- PAGE 575 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 575 of 762 
 
1.0 
Introduction 
1.1 
This appendix provides special requirements for the Type V test of OVC-
HEVs and NOVC-HEVs, as set out in paragraphs 2. and 3. of this appendix. 
2.0 
For OVC-HEVs: 
 
It is allowed to charge the electrical energy/power storage device twice a day 
during mileage accumulation. 
 
The mileage accumulation using the REESS shall be less than the target useful 
life multiplied by the sum of all calculated Utility Factors UFj (UF) for that 
vehicle from the beginning of the charge-depleting Type I test up to phase j. 
 
Phase j corresponds with the last phase of the transition cycle which is the end 
of the Charge-Depleting-Type I test. 
 
Mileage accumulation shall be driven in the driver selectable mode that is 
always selected when the vehicle is switched on (predominant mode) or in the 
mode which is recommended by the manufacturer (if no predominant mode is 
available) after agreement of the Test Agencies. 
 
During the mileage accumulation a change into another hybrid mode is 
allowed if necessary in order to continue the mileage accumulation after 
agreement of the Test Agency. 
 
The measurements of emissions of pollutants shall be carried out under the 
same conditions as specified in paragraph 3.2.5. of Annex B8. 
3.0 
For NOVC-HEVs: 
 
Mileage accumulation shall be driven in the driver selectable mode which is 
always selected when the vehicle is switched on (predominant mode) or in the 
mode which is recommended by the manufacturer (if no predominant mode is 
available) after agreement of the Test Agency. 
 
The measurements of emissions of pollutants shall be carried out in the same 
conditions as in the Type I test. 



--- PAGE 576 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 576 of 762 
 
Annex C5 
On-Board Diagnostics (OBD) for motor vehicles 
1.0 
Introduction 
 
This annex applies to the functional aspects of On-Board Diagnostic (OBD) 
system for the emission control of motor vehicles. 
 
This annex does not apply to PEVs and FCHVs 
2.0 
RESERVED 
3.0 
Requirements and tests 
3.1 
All vehicles shall be equipped with an OBD system so designed, constructed 
and installed in a vehicle as to enable it to identify types of deterioration or 
malfunction over the entire life of the vehicle. In achieving this objective, the 
Test Agency shall accept that vehicles which have travelled distances in 
excess of the target useful life (according to paragraph 6.7. of this Regulation) 
referred to in paragraph 3.3.1. of this annex, may show some deterioration in 
OBD system performance such that the OBD thresholds defined as per  
Gazette Notification may be exceeded before the OBD system signals a failure 
to the driver of the vehicle. 
3.1.1 
Access to the OBD system required for the inspection, diagnosis, servicing or 
repair of the vehicle shall be unrestricted and standardised. All emission-
related fault codes shall be consistent with paragraph 6.5.3.5. of Appendix 1 
to this annex. 
3.2 
  General provisions for the OBD system 
3.2.1 
The OBD system shall be so designed, constructed and installed in a vehicle 
as to enable it to comply with the requirements of this annex during conditions 
of normal use. 
 
Temporary disablement of the OBD system 
3.2.1.1 
A manufacturer may disable the OBD system if its ability to monitor is 
affected by low fuel levels. Disablement shall not occur when the fuel tank 
level is above 20 per cent of the nominal capacity of the fuel tank. 



--- PAGE 577 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 577 of 762 
 
3.2.1.2 
A manufacturer may disable any specific OBD monitor for a given driving 
cycle for ambient or engine coolant temperatures below 266 K (-7 °C) or at 
elevations over 2,440 metres above sea level provided the manufacturer 
submits data and/or an engineering evaluation which adequately demonstrate 
that monitoring would be unreliable when such conditions exist. A 
manufacturer may also request disablement of any specific OBD monitor at 
other ambient or engine coolant temperatures or other elevations if he 
demonstrates to the Test Agency with data and/or an engineering evaluation 
that misdiagnosis would occur under such conditions. It is not necessary to 
illuminate the Malfunction Indicator (MI) if the OBD thresholds are exceeded 
during a regeneration provided no defect is present. 
Engine temperature is only deemed subject to approval, if it is used as a 
substitute to ambient temperature. 
3.2.1.3 
For vehicles designed to accommodate the installation of power take-off units, 
disablement of affected monitoring systems is permitted provided disablement 
occurs only when the power take-off unit is active. 
 
In addition to the provisions of this paragraph the manufacturer may 
temporarily disable the OBD system in the following conditions: 
 
(a) 
For flex fuel or mono/bi fuel gas vehicles during 1 minute after re-
fuelling to allow for the recognition of fuel quality and composition by 
the ECU; 
 
(b) For bi fuel vehicles during 5 seconds after fuel switching to allow for 
readjusting engine parameters; 
 
(c) 
The manufacturer may deviate from these time limits if it can 
demonstrate that stabilisation of the fuelling system after re-fuelling or 
fuel switching takes longer for justified technical reasons. In any case, 
the OBD system shall be re-enabled as soon as either the fuel quality and 
composition is recognised, or the engine parameters are readjusted. 
3.2.2 
Engine misfire in vehicles equipped with positive ignition engines 
3.2.2.1 
Manufacturers may adopt higher misfire percentage malfunction criteria than 
those declared to the Test Agency, under specific engine speed and load 
conditions where it can be demonstrated to the Test Agency that the detection 
of lower levels of misfire would be unreliable. 
3.2.2.2 
When a manufacturer can demonstrate to the Test Agency that the detection 
of higher levels of misfire percentages is still not feasible, or that misfire 
cannot be distinguished from other effects (e.g. rough roads, transmission 
shifts, after engine starting; etc.) the misfire monitoring system may be 
disabled when such conditions exist. 
3.2.3 
Identification of deterioration or malfunctions may be also be done outside a 
driving cycle (e.g. after engine shutdown). 



--- PAGE 578 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 578 of 762 
 
3.3 
Description of tests 
3.3.1 
The tests are carried out on the vehicle used for the Type V durability test, 
given in Annex C4 to this Regulation, and using the test procedure in 
Appendix 1 to this annex. Tests are carried out at the conclusion of the Type 
V durability testing. 
 
When no Type V durability testing is carried out, or at the request of the 
manufacturer, a suitably aged and representative vehicle may be used for these 
OBD demonstration tests. 
3.3.2 
The OBD system shall indicate the failure of an emission-related component 
or system when that failure results in emissions exceeding any of the OBD 
thresholds as per  Gazette Notification 
3.3.2.1 
The OBD thresholds limits for vehicles that are type approved according to 
the emission limits per  Gazette Notification.  
3.3.3 
Monitoring requirements for vehicles equipped with positive ignition 
engines. 
 
In satisfying the requirements of paragraph 3.3.2. of this annex the OBD 
system shall, at a minimum, monitor for: 
3.3.3.1 
Catalyst 
 
The reduction in the efficiency of the catalytic converter with respect to 
emissions of NMHC and NOx. Manufacturers may monitor the front catalyst 
alone or in combination with the next catalyst(s) downstream. Each monitored 
catalyst or catalyst combination shall be considered malfunctioning when the 
emissions exceed the NMHC or NOx OBD thresholds as per  Gazette 
Notification. 
3.3.3.2 
Engine Misfire 
 
The presence of engine misfire in the engine operating region bounded by the 
following lines:  
 
(a) 
A maximum speed of 4,500 min-1 or 1,000 min-1 greater than the 
highest speed occurring during a Type I Test cycle, whichever is the 
lower; 
 
(b) 
The positive torque line (i.e. engine load with the transmission in 
neutral); 
 
(c) 
A line joining the following engine operating points: the positive torque 
line at 3,000 min-1 and a point on the maximum speed line defined in 
(a) above with the engine's manifold vacuum at 13.33 kPa lower than 
that at the positive torque line. 
3.3.3.2.1 
Specific monitoring rate for misfire: 



--- PAGE 579 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 579 of 762 
 
 
(a) 
Catalytic converter protection. The engine misfire which causes the 
catalytic converter damage because of excessive heat, shall be 
monitored every 200 revolutions within the region specified in 
paragraph 3.3.3.2. 
 
 
When the evaluated engine misfire rate is less than 5%, the limit can be 
fixed at 5%. 
 
(b) 
Exceeding emission threshold. The engine misfire which causes to 
exceed an emission threshold shall be monitored every 1,000 
revolutions within the region specified in paragraph 3.3.3.2. 
 
 
When the evaluated engine misfire rate is less than 1%, the limit can be 
fixed at 1%. 
3.3.3.3 
Oxygen sensor deterioration 
 
This paragraph shall mean that the deterioration of all oxygen sensors fitted 
and used for monitoring malfunctions of the catalytic converter according to 
the requirements of this annex shall be monitored. 
3.3.3.4 
Exhaust gas recirculation system 
Malfunction of exhaust gas recirculation system when the emissions exceed 
any OBD threshold as per Gazette Notification.  
3.3.3.5 
Fuel system 
 
Malfunction of fuel supply system when the emissions exceed any OBD 
threshold as per Gazette Notification. 
3.3.3.6 
Secondary air system 
 
Malfunction of exhaust secondary air system when the emissions exceed any 
OBD threshold as per Gazette Notification  
3.3.3.7 
Valve timing system 
 
Malfunction of variable valve timing mechanism when the emissions exceed 
any OBD threshold as per Gazette Notification 
3.3.3.8 
The electronic evaporative emission purge control shall, at a minimum, be 
monitored for circuit continuity. 
3.3.3.9 
For direct injection positive ignition engines any malfunction, which may lead 
to emissions exceeding the particulate OBD threshold limits as per Gazette 
Notification  and which has to be monitored according to the requirements of 
this annex for compression ignition engines, shall be monitored. 
3.3.3.10 
  Comprehensive Components 



--- PAGE 580 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 580 of 762 
 
 
Unless otherwise monitored the following shall be monitored for circuit 
continuity: 
 
(a) 
Any other emission-related power-train component connected to a 
computer, the failure of which may result in tailpipe emissions 
exceeding the OBD thresholds as per Gazette Notification ; or 
 
(b) Any relevant sensors used to enable monitoring functions to be carried 
out. 
3.3.3.11 
Other emission Control System 
 
If active on the selected fuel, any other emission control systems ( e.g. 
Atmosphere pressure sensor, Intake air pressure sensor, Intake air temperature 
sensor, Air flow sensor, Engine coolant temperature sensor, Throttle sensor, 
Cylinder identification sensor, Crank angle sensor, etc…) , the failure of 
which may result in tailpipe emissions exceeding the OBD thresholds as per 
Gazette Notification  shall be monitored. 
3.3.4 
Monitoring requirements for vehicles equipped with compression-
ignition engines 
 
In satisfying the requirements of paragraph 3.3.2. of this annex the OBD 
system shall monitor: 
3.3.4.1 
Where fitted, reduction in the efficiency of the catalytic converter. 
3.3.4.2 
Where fitted, the functionality and integrity of the particulate trap. 
3.3.4.3 
The fuel-injection system electronic fuel quantity and timing actuator(s) is/are 
monitored for circuit continuity and total functional failure. 
3.3.4.4 
Malfunctions and the reduction in efficiency of the EGR system shall be 
monitored. 
3.3.4.5 
Malfunctions and the reduction in efficiency of a NOx after-treatment system 
using a reagent and the reagent dosing sub-system shall be monitored. 
3.3.4.6 
Malfunctions and the reduction in efficiency of NOx after-treatment not using 
a reagent shall be monitored.  
3.3.4.7 
Comprehensive Components 
 
Unless otherwise monitored the following shall be monitored for circuit 
continuity: 
 
(a) 
any other emission-related power-train component connected to a 
computer, the failure of which may result in tailpipe emissions 
exceeding the OBD thresholds as per Gazette Notification ; or 
 
(b) 
any relevant sensors used to enable monitoring functions to be carried 
out. 



--- PAGE 581 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 581 of 762 
 
3.3.4.8 
   Other emission Control System 
 
If active on the selected fuel, any other emission control systems (e.g air mass-
flow, air volumetric flow (and temperature), boost pressure and inlet manifold 
pressure, etc...), the failure of which may result in tailpipe emissions 
exceeding the OBD thresholds as per Gazette Notification  shall be monitored. 
3.3.5 
Manufacturers may demonstrate to the Test Agency that certain components 
or systems need not be monitored if, in the event of their total failure or 
removal, emissions do not exceed the OBD thresholds as per Gazette 
Notification  
3.3.5.1 
The following devices should however be monitored for total failure or 
removal (if removal would cause the applicable emission limits as per Gazette 
Notification to be exceeded): 
 
(a) 
A particulate trap fitted to compression ignition engines as a separate 
unit or integrated into a combined emission control device; 
 
(b) 
A NOx after treatment system fitted to compression ignition engines as 
a separate unit or integrated into a combined emission control device; 
 
(c) 
A Diesel Oxidation Catalyst (DOC) fitted to compression ignition 
engines as a separate unit or integrated into a combined emission 
control device. 
3.3.5.2 
The devices referred to in paragraph 3.3.5.1. of this annex shall also be 
monitored for any failure that would result in exceeding the applicable OBD 
thresholds as per Gazette Notification. 
3.4 
A sequence of diagnostic checks shall be initiated at each driving cycle and 
completed at least once provided that the correct test conditions are met. The 
test conditions shall be selected in such a way that they all occur under normal 
driving as represented by the Type I test. 
3.5 
  Activation of malfunction indicator (MI) 
3.5.1 
The OBD system shall incorporate a malfunction indicator readily perceivable 
to the vehicle operator. The MI shall not be used for any other purpose except 
to indicate emergency start-up, emission default modes or limp-home routines 
to the driver. The MI shall be visible in all reasonable lighting conditions. 
When activated, it shall display a symbol in conformity with ISO 2575. A 
vehicle shall not be equipped with more than one general purpose MI for 
emission-related problems. Separate specific purpose tell tales (e. g. brake 
system, fasten seat belt, oil pressure, etc.) are permitted. The use of red colour 
for an MI is prohibited. 



--- PAGE 582 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 582 of 762 
 
3.5.2 
For strategies requiring more than two preconditioning cycles for MI 
activation, the manufacturer shall provide data and/or an engineering 
evaluation which adequately demonstrates that the monitoring system is 
equally effective and timely in detecting component deterioration. Strategies 
requiring on average more than ten driving cycles for MI activation are not 
accepted. The MI shall also activate whenever the engine control enters a 
permanent emission default mode of operation if any of the OBD thresholds. 
as per Gazette Notification are exceeded or if the OBD system is unable to 
fulfil the basic monitoring requirements specified in paragraph 3.3.3. or 3.3.4. 
of this annex. The MI shall operate in a distinct warning mode, e.g. a flashing 
light, under any period during which engine misfire occurs at a level likely to 
cause catalyst damage, as specified by the manufacturer. The MI shall also 
activate when the vehicle's ignition is in the "key-on" position before engine 
starting or cranking and de-activate after engine starting if no malfunction has 
previously been detected. 
3.6 
Fault code storage 
3.6.1 
The OBD system shall record pending and confirmed fault code(s) indicating 
the status of the emission control system. Separate status codes (readiness 
codes) shall be used to identify correctly functioning emission control systems 
and those emission control systems which need further vehicle operation to be 
fully evaluated.  
3.6.1.1 
Upon detection of a malfunction or if a permanent emission default mode of 
operation is activated, the OBD system shall store a pending fault code. 
3.6.1.2 
After storage of a pending fault code, if the identified malfunction is again 
detected before the end of the next two OBD driving cycles, in which the 
monitoring occurs, the MI shall be activated and a confirmed fault code shall 
be stored that identifies the type of malfunction. A confirmed fault code shall 
also be stored, if a permanent emission default mode of operation is active in 
accordance with paragraph 3.5.2. 
3.6.2 
In the case of vehicles equipped with positive ignition engines, misfiring 
cylinders need not be uniquely identified if a distinct single or multiple 
cylinder misfire fault code is stored. 
3.7 
Extinguishing the MI 
3.7.1 
If misfire at levels likely to cause catalyst damage (as specified by the 
manufacturer) is not present any more, or if the engine is operated after 
changes to speed and load conditions where the level of misfire will not cause 
catalyst damage, the MI may be switched back to the previous state of 
activation during the first driving cycle on which the misfire level was 
detected and may be switched to the normal activated mode on subsequent 
driving cycles. If the MI is switched back to the previous state of activation, 
the corresponding fault codes and stored freeze-frame conditions may be 
erased. 



--- PAGE 583 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 583 of 762 
 
3.7.2 
For all other malfunctions, the MI may be de-activated after three subsequent 
sequential driving cycles during which the monitoring system responsible for 
activating the MI ceases to detect the malfunction and if no other malfunction 
has been identified that would independently activate the MI. 
3.8 
Erasing a fault code 
3.8.1 
The OBD system may erase a fault code and the distance travelled and freeze-
frame information if the same fault is not re-registered in at least 40 engine 
warm-up cycles or 40 driving cycles with vehicle operation in which the 
following criteria (a)-(c) are satisfied: 
 
(a) 
Cumulative time since engine start is greater than or equal to 600 
seconds; 
 
(b) 
Cumulative vehicle operation at or above 40 km/h occurs for greater 
than or equal to 300 seconds; 
 
(c) 
Continuous vehicle operation at idle (i.e. accelerator pedal released by 
driver and vehicle speed less than or equal to 1.6 km/h) for greater than 
or equal to 30 seconds. 
3.9 
Bi-fuelled gas vehicles 
 
In general, for bi-fuelled gas vehicles for each of the fuel types (petrol and 
(NG/biomethane)/LPG)) all the OBD requirements as for a mono-fuelled vehicle 
are applicable. To this end one of the following two options in paragraphs 3.9.1. 
or 3.9.2. of this annex or any combination thereof, shall be used. 
3.9.1 
One OBD system for both fuel types. 
3.9.1.1 
The following procedures shall be executed for each diagnostic in a single 
OBD system for operation on petrol and on (NG/biomethane)/LPG, either 
independent of the fuel currently in use or fuel type specific: 
 
(a) 
Activation of malfunction indicator (MI) (see paragraph 3.5. of this 
annex); 
 
(b) 
Fault code storage (see paragraph 3.6. of this annex); 
 
(c) 
Extinguishing the MI (see paragraph 3.7. of this annex); 
 
(d) 
Erasing a fault code (see paragraph 3.8. of this annex). 
 
For components or systems to be monitored, either separate diagnostics for 
each fuel type can be used or a common diagnostic. 
3.9.1.2 
The OBD system can reside in either one or more computers. 
3.9.2 
Two separate OBD systems, one for each fuel type. 



--- PAGE 584 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 584 of 762 
 
3.9.2.1 
The following procedures shall be executed independently of each other when 
the vehicle is operated on petrol or on (NG/biomethane)/LPG: 
 
(a) 
Activation of malfunction indicator (MI) (see paragraph 3.5. of this 
annex); 
 
(b) 
Fault code storage (see paragraph 3.6. of this annex); 
 
(c) 
Extinguishing the MI (see paragraph 3.7. of this annex); 
 
(d) 
Erasing a fault code (see paragraph 3.8. of this annex). 
3.9.2.2 
The separate OBD systems can reside in either one or more computers. 
3.9.3 
Specific requirements regarding the transmission of diagnostic signals from 
bi-fuelled gas vehicles. 
3.9.3.1 
On a request from a diagnostic scan tool, the diagnostic signals shall be 
transmitted on one or more source addresses. The use of source addresses is 
described in the standard listed in paragraph 6.5.3.2.(a) of Appendix 1 to this 
annex. 
3.9.3.2 
Identification of fuel specific information can be realized: 
 
(a) 
By use of source addresses; and/or 
 
(b) 
By use of a fuel select switch; and/or 
 
(c) 
By use of fuel specific fault codes. 
3.9.4 
Regarding the status code (as described in paragraph 3.6. of this annex), one 
of the following two options has to be used, if one or more of the diagnostics 
reporting readiness is fuel type specific: 
 
(a) 
The status code is fuel specific, i.e. use of two status codes, one for each 
fuel type; 
 
(b) 
The status code shall indicate fully evaluated control systems for both 
fuel types (petrol and (NG/biomethane)/LPG)) when the control 
systems are fully evaluated for one of the fuel types. 
 
If none of the diagnostics reporting readiness is fuel type specific, then only 
one status code has to be supported. 
3.10 
Additional provisions for vehicles employing engine shut - off strategies. 
3.10.1 
Driving cycle  
3.10.1.1 
Autonomous engine restarts commanded by the engine control system 
following an engine stall may be considered a new driving cycle or a 
continuation of the existing driving cycle. 



--- PAGE 585 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 585 of 762 
 
4.0 
Requirements relating to the type approval of on-board diagnostic systems 
4.1 
A manufacturer may request to the Test Agency that an OBD system be 
accepted for type approval even though the system contains one or more 
deficiencies such that the specific requirements of this annex are not fully met. 
The Test Agency may approve up to two separate components or systems with 
one or more deficiencies.  
 
When a manufacturer adopts specific conditions for misfire defined in 
paragraph 3.3.3.2.1. of this annex, these conditions shall not be considered as 
a deficiency. 
4.2 
In considering the request, the Test Agency shall determine whether 
compliance with the requirements of this annex is infeasible or unreasonable. 
 
The Test Agency shall take into consideration data from the manufacturer that 
details such factors as, but not limited to, technical feasibility, lead time and 
production cycles including phase-in or phase-out of engines or vehicle designs 
and programmed upgrades of computers, the extent to which the resultant OBD 
system will be effective in complying with the requirements of this Regulation 
and that the manufacturer has demonstrated an acceptable level of effort 
towards compliance with the requirements of this Regulation. 
4.2.1 
The Test Agency shall not accept any deficiency request that includes the 
complete lack of a required diagnostic monitor or the lack of mandated 
recording and reporting of data related to a monitor. 
4.2.2 
The Test Agency will not accept any deficiency request that does not respect 
the OBD thresholds as per Gazette Notification . 
4.3 
In determining the identified order of deficiencies, deficiencies relating to 
paragraphs 3.3.3.1., 3.3.3.2. and 3.3.3.3. of this annex for positive ignition 
engines and paragraphs 3.3.4.1., 3.3.4.2. and 3.3.4.3. of this annex for 
compression-ignition engines shall be identified first. 
4.4 
Prior to or at the time of type approval, no deficiency shall be granted in 
respect of the requirements of paragraph 6.5., except paragraph 6.5.3.5., of 
Appendix 1 to this annex.  
4.5 
Deficiency period 
4.5.1 
A deficiency may be carried-over for a period of two years after the date of 
type-approval unless it can be adequately demonstrated that substantial vehicle 
hardware modifications and additional lead-time beyond two years would be 
necessary to correct the deficiency. In such a case, the deficiency may be 
carried-over for a period not exceeding three years. 



--- PAGE 586 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 586 of 762 
 
4.5.2 
A manufacturer may request that the Test Agency grant a deficiency 
retrospectively when such a deficiency is discovered after the original type-
approval. In this case, the deficiency may be carried-over for a period of two 
years after the date of notification to the Test Agency unless it can be 
adequately demonstrated that substantial vehicle hardware modifications and 
additional lead-time beyond two years would be necessary to correct the 
deficiency. In such a case, the deficiency may be carried-over for a period not 
exceeding three years. 
4.6 
At the request of the manufacturer, a vehicle with an OBD system may be 
accepted for type-approval with regard to emissions, even though the system 
contains one or more deficiencies such that the specific requirements of this 
annex are not fully met, provided that the specific administrative provisions 
set out in paragraphs 4.1. to 4.5.2.of this annex are complied with.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 587 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 587 of 762 
 
 
Annex C5 - Appendix 1 
Functional aspects of On-Board Diagnostic (OBD) systems 
1.0 
This appendix describes the procedure of the test according to paragraph 3. of 
this annex. The procedure describes a method for checking the function of the 
On-Board Diagnostic (OBD) system installed on the vehicle by failure 
simulation of relevant systems in the engine management or emission control 
system. It also sets procedures for determining the durability of OBD systems. 
 
The manufacturer shall make available the defective components and/or 
electrical devices which would be used to simulate failures. When measured over 
the Type I test cycle, such defective components or devices shall not cause the 
vehicle emissions to exceed any of the OBD thresholds as per Gazette 
Notification by more than 20 per cent. For electrical failures (short/open circuit), 
the emissions may exceed these OBD thresholds by more than twenty per cent. 
 
When the vehicle is tested with the defective component or device fitted, the 
OBD system is approved if the MI is activated. The OBD system is also 
approved if the MI is activated below the OBD thresholds. 
 
If any of the vehicle emissions go below the OBD thresholds as per Gazette 
Notification  and MI is not activated, the OBD test is regarded as invalid. 
 
If such defective components or devices cause the vehicle emissions to exceed 
any of the OBD thresholds as per Gazette Notification  by more than 20 per cent, 
and the MI is activated, the OBD test is regarded as invalid. 
 
If any of the vehicle emissions exceed any of the OBD thresholds as per Gazette 
Notification  and MI is not activated, the OBD test is regarded as fail. 
2.0 
Description of test 
2.1 
The testing of OBD systems consists of the following phases: 
2.1.1 
Simulation of malfunction of a component of the engine management or 
emission control system; 
2.1.2 
Preconditioning of the vehicle with a simulated malfunction over 
preconditioning specified in paragraph 6.2.1. or paragraph 6.2.2. of this 
appendix; 
2.1.3 
Driving the vehicle with a simulated malfunction over the Type I test cycle and 
measuring the emissions of the vehicle. When driving the vehicle with a 
simulated malfunction, the drive trace indices and tolerances set out in paragraph 
2.6.8.3.2. of Annex B6 shall not apply; 
2.1.4 
Determining whether the OBD system reacts to the simulated malfunction and 
indicates malfunction in an appropriate manner to the vehicle driver. 



--- PAGE 588 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 588 of 762 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2 
Alternatively, at the request of the manufacturer, malfunction of one or more 
components may be electronically simulated according to the requirements of 
paragraph 6. of this appendix. 
2.3 
 
Manufacturers may request that monitoring take place outside the Type I 
test cycle if it can be demonstrated to the Test Agency that monitoring during 
conditions encountered during the Type I test cycle would impose restrictive 
monitoring conditions when the vehicle is used in service. 
3.0 
Test vehicle and fuel 
3.1 
Vehicle 
 
The test vehicle shall meet the requirements of paragraph 2.3. of Annex B6 to 
this Regulation. 
3.2 
Fuel 
 
The appropriate reference fuel as described in Annex B3 to this Regulation shall 
be used for testing. The fuel type for each failure mode to be tested (described in 
paragraph 6.3. of this appendix) may be selected by the Test Agency from the 
reference fuels described in Annex B3 to this Regulation in the case of the testing 
of a mono-fuelled gas vehicle or of a bi-fuelled gas vehicle. The selected fuel 
type shall not be changed during any of the test phases (described in paragraphs 
2.1. to 2.3. of this appendix). In the case of the use of LPG or NG/biomethane as 
a fuel it is permissible that the engine is started on petrol and switched to LPG 
or NG/biomethane after a pre-determined period of time which is controlled 
automatically and not under the control of the driver. 
4.0 
Test temperature and pressure 
4.1 
The test temperature and pressure shall meet the requirements of the Type I test 
as described in Annex B6 to this Regulation. 
5.0 
Test equipment 
5.1 
Chassis dynamometer 
 
The chassis dynamometer shall meet the requirements of Annex B5 to this 
Regulation. 
6.0 
OBD test procedure 
 
An overview of the OBD test procedure is provided in Figure C5.App1/1. This 
is for information purposes only. 



--- PAGE 589 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 589 of 762 
 
 
Figure C5.App1/1 
Overview of demonstration test 
 
 
6.1 
The operating cycle on the chassis dynamometer shall be the applicable WLTC 
driven in the Type I test, as specified  in this regulation. 
6.1.1 
The Type I test need not be performed for the demonstration of electrical failures 
(short/open circuit). The manufacturer may demonstrate these failure modes 
using driving conditions in which the component is used and the monitoring 
conditions are encountered. These conditions shall be reported in the type 
approval documentation. 
6.1.2 
At the beginning of each failure mode to be demonstrated, the fault code memory 
shall be cleared. 
6.2 
Vehicle preconditioning 
6.2.1 
Preconditioning for adaption 
 
Preconditioning for adaption consists of two parts 
 
(a) 
Preconditioning for adaption without fault 
Preconditioning for Adaption 
(with out fault, if needed)
Installation of fault
Preconditioning for Adaption
(with fault, if needed)
Erase fault code if fault code is 
present
Preconditioning for Monitoring
(store fault code)
Preconditioning for Monitoring
(store fault code)
Soak
Emission measurement
(MI activation)



--- PAGE 590 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 590 of 762 
 
 
(b) 
Preconditioning for adaption with fault 
 
upon the choice of the manufacturer. 
 
The preconditioning for adaption consists of one or more consecutive WLTC 3-
phase tests. At the request of the manufacturer and with the approval of the Test 
Agency, alternative method for adaption may be used instead of 3-phase-tests. 
 
If the fault code is stored after preconditioning for adaption, manufacturer shall 
delete the fault code. 
6.2.2 
Preconditioning for Monitoring 
6.2.2.1 
According to the engine type and after introduction of one of the failure modes 
given in paragraph 6.3. of this appendix, the vehicle shall be preconditioned by 
driving at least two consecutive 3-phase-WLTC tests. 
6.2.3 
At the request of the manufacturer with approval by Test Agency, alternative 
preconditioning methods may be used. 
 
The reason for the use of additional preconditioning cycles or alternative 
preconditioning methods as well as details of these cycles/methods shall be 
reported in the type approval documentation. 
6.3 
Selection of failure modes 
 
For the purpose of the type approval the total number of failures simulated shall 
not exceed four (4) and shall be selected from the failure modes described in the 
paragraph 6.3.1. and 6.3.2. In the case of testing a bi-fuel gas vehicle, both fuel 
types shall be used within the maximum of four (4) simulated failures at the 
discretion of the Test Agency 
6.3.1 
Vehicles equipped with positive ignition engines: 
 
Test the vehicle by simulation of a failure of a component under paragraph 3.3.3. 
by replacement with a defective or deteriorated component or the electronic 
simulation of such a failure. 
 
Tests shall only be performed if the respective component is equipped and a 
failure results in emissions above any OBD threshold. 
6.3.2 
Vehicle equipped with compression-ignition engines: 
 
Test the vehicle by simulation of a failure of a component under paragraph 3.3.4. 
by replacement with a defective or deteriorated component or the electronic 
simulation of such a failure. 
 
Tests shall only be performed if the respective component is equipped and a 
failure results in emissions above any OBD threshold. 
6.3.2.1 
Where fitted, replacement of the catalyst with a deteriorated or defective catalyst 
or electronic simulation of such a failure. 



--- PAGE 591 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 591 of 762 
 
6.3.2.2 
Where fitted, total removal of the particulate trap or, where sensors are an 
integral part of the trap, a defective trap assembly. 
6.3.2.3 
Electrical disconnection of any fuelling system electronic fuel quantity and 
timing actuator. 
6.3.2.4 
Electrical disconnection of any other emission-related component connected to 
a power-train management computer. 
6.3.2.5 
In meeting the requirements of paragraphs 6.3.2.3. and 6.3.2.4. of this appendix, 
and with the agreement of the Test Agency, the manufacturer shall take 
appropriate steps to demonstrate that the OBD system will indicate a fault when 
disconnection occurs. 
6.3.2.6 
The manufacturer shall demonstrate that malfunctions of the EGR flow and 
cooler are detected by the OBD system during its approval test. 
6.4 
OBD system test 
6.4.1 
Vehicles fitted with positive ignition engines: 
6.4.1.1 
After vehicle preconditioning according to paragraph 6.2. of this appendix, the 
test vehicle is driven over a Type I test. 
 
The MI shall be activated at the latest before the end of this test under any of the 
conditions given in paragraphs 6.4.1.2 of this appendix. The MI may also be 
activated during preconditioning. The Test Agency may substitute those failure 
modes with others in accordance with paragraph 3.3.3.11. of this annex. 
6.4.1.2 
Test the vehicle by simulation of a failure of a component under paragraph 3.3.3. 
by replacement with a defective or deteriorated component or the electronic 
simulation of such a failure that results in emissions exceeding any applicable 
OBD threshold asper Gazette Notification . 
6.4.2 
Vehicles fitted with compression-ignition engines: 
6.4.2.1 
After vehicle preconditioning according to paragraph 6.2. of this appendix, the 
test vehicle is driven over a Type I test. 
 
The MI shall be activated at the latest before the end of this test under any of the 
conditions given in paragraphs 6.4.2.2. of this appendix. The MI may also be 
activated during preconditioning. The Test Agency may substitute those failure 
modes by others in accordance with paragraph 3.3.4.8 of this annex. 
6.4.2.2 
Test the vehicle by simulation of a failure of a component under paragraph 3.3.4. 
by replacement with a defective or deteriorated component or the electronic 
simulation of such a failure that results in emissions exceeding any applicable 
OBD threshold as per Gazette Notification. 
6.5 
Diagnostic signals 



--- PAGE 592 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 592 of 762 
 
6.5.1 
The OBD system shall support the following data through the serial data port on 
the standardised data link connector according to the specifications given in 
paragraph 6.5.3. of this appendix. 
6.5.1.1 
Freeze Frame information 
 
Upon determination of the first malfunction of any component or system, 
"freeze-frame" engine conditions present at the time shall be stored in computer 
memory. Should a subsequent fuel system or misfire malfunction occur, any 
previously stored freeze-frame conditions shall be replaced by the fuel system 
or misfire conditions (whichever occurs first). Stored engine conditions shall 
include, but are not limited to calculated load value, engine speed (RPM), fuel 
trim value(s) (if available), fuel pressure (if available), vehicle speed (if 
available), engine coolant temperature, intake manifold pressure (if available), 
fuel system status (e.g. closed-loop, open-loop) (if available) and the fault code 
which caused the data to be stored. The manufacturer shall choose the most 
appropriate set of conditions facilitating effective repairs for freeze-frame 
storage. Only one frame of data is required. Manufacturers may choose to store 
additional frames provided that at least the required frame can be read by a 
generic scan tool meeting the specifications of paragraphs 6.5.3.2. and 6.5.3.3. 
of this appendix. If the fault code causing the conditions to be stored is erased in 
accordance with paragraph 3.8. of this annex, the stored engine conditions may 
also be erased.  
6.5.1.2 
Current Powertrain diagnostic data 
 
If available, the following signals in addition to the required freeze-frame 
information shall be made available on demand through the serial port on the 
standardised data link connector, if the information is available to the on-board 
computer or can be determined using information available to the on-board 
computer: number of diagnostic trouble codes, engine coolant temperature, fuel 
system status (e.g. closed-loop, open-loop), fuel trim, ignition timing advance, 
intake air temperature, intake manifold air pressure, air flow rate, engine speed 
(RPM), throttle position sensor output value, secondary air status (upstream, 
downstream or atmosphere), calculated load value, vehicle speed, fuel pressure, 
oxygen sensor, lambda sensor, and number of fault code. 
 
The signals shall be provided in standard units based on the specifications given 
in paragraph 6.5.3. of this appendix. Actual signals shall be clearly identified 
separately from default value or limp-home signals. 
6.5.1.2.1 
The distance travelled by the vehicle while the MI is activated shall be made 
available at any instant through the serial port on the standard link connector. 
6.5.1.2.2 
Readiness data shall be made available. This includes support and status of 
monitors as well as MI status and number of emission related fault codes. 
6.5.1.2.3 
The OBD requirements to which the vehicle is certified shall be made available 
6.5.1.3 
On-Board Monitoring Test Results 



--- PAGE 593 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 593 of 762 
 
 
For all emission control systems for which specific on-board evaluation tests are 
conducted (catalyst, oxygen sensor, etc.), except misfire detection, fuel system 
monitoring and comprehensive component monitoring, the results of the most 
recent test performed by the vehicle and the limits to which the system is 
compared shall be made available  
6.5.1.5 
Software Calibration Identification 
 
The software calibration identification number (CAL ID) shall be made 
available. 
6.5.1.6 
For all monitored components and systems, stored pending and confirmed fault 
codes shall be made available. 
6.5.1.7 
All data required to be stored in relation to OBD in-use performance according 
to the provisions of paragraph 7.6. of this appendix (if applicable) shall be made 
available. 
6.5.1.8 
Calibration Verification Number 
 
The software calibration verification number (CVN) shall be made available. 
Manufacture shall report changes/revision to CVN along with details of nature 
of changes(s) to Test Agency on half yearly basis. 
6.5.2 
The emission control diagnostic system is not required to evaluate components 
during malfunction if such evaluation would result in a risk to safety or 
component failure. 
6.5.3 
The emission control diagnostic system shall provide for standardised and 
unrestricted access and conform to the following ISO standards and/or SAE 
specification. Later versions may be used at the manufacturers' discretion. 
6.5.3.1 
The following standard shall be used as the on-board to off-board 
communications link: 
 
(a) 
ISO 15765-4:2016 "Road vehicles – Diagnostics on Controller Area 
Network (CAN) – Part 4: Requirements for emissions-related systems", 
dated 1 February 2016. 
6.5.3.2 
Standards used for the transmission of OBD relevant information: 
 
(a) 
ISO 15031-5 "Road vehicles - communication between vehicles and 
external test equipment for emissions-related diagnostics – Part 5: 
Emissions-related diagnostic services", dated 2015 or SAE J1979 dated 
February 2017; 
 
(b) 
ISO 15031-4 "Road vehicles – Communication between vehicle and 
external test equipment for emissions related diagnostics – Part 4: External 
test equipment", dated 2014 or SAE J1978 dated 30 April 2002; 
 
(c) 
ISO 15031-3 "Road vehicles – Communication between vehicle and 
external test equipment for emissions related diagnostics Part 3: 



--- PAGE 594 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 594 of 762 
 
Diagnostic connector and related electrical circuits: specification and use", 
dated 2016 or SAE J 1962 dated July 2016; 
 
(d) 
ISO 15031-6 "Road vehicles – Communication between vehicle and 
external test equipment for emissions related diagnostics – Part 6: 
Diagnostic trouble code definitions", dated 2015 or SAE J2012 dated 
December 2016; 
 
(e) 
ISO 27145 "Road vehicles – Implementation of World-Wide Harmonized 
On-Board Diagnostics (WWH-OBD)" dated 2012-08-15 with the 
restriction, that only 6.5.3.1.(a) may be used as a data link; 
 
(f) 
ISO 14229:2013 "Road vehicles – Unified diagnostic services (UDS) with 
the restriction, that only 6.5.3.1.(a) may be used as a data link". 
 
(g) 
SAE J 1979-2 "E/E Diagnostic Test Modes: OBDonUDS", April2021 
 
The standards (e), (f) and (g) may be used as an option instead of (a). 
6.5.3.3 
Test equipment and diagnostic tools needed to communicate with OBD systems 
shall meet or exceed the functional specification given in the standard listed in 
paragraph 6.5.3.2.(b) of this appendix. 
6.5.3.4 
Basic diagnostic data, (as specified in paragraph 6.5.1.) and bi-directional 
control information shall be provided using the format and units described in the 
standard listed in paragraph 6.5.3.2.(a) of this appendix and must be available 
using a diagnostic tool meeting the requirements of the standard listed in 
paragraph 6.5.3.2.(b) of this appendix. 
 
The vehicle manufacturer shall provide to the responsible standardisation body 
the details of any emission-related diagnostic data, e.g. PID’s, OBD monitor 
Id’s, Test ID’s not specified in the standard listed in paragraph 6.5.3.2.(a) of this 
appendix but related to this Regulation. 
6.5.3.5 
When a fault is registered, the manufacturer shall identify the fault using an 
appropriate ISO/SAE controlled fault code specified in one of the standards 
listed in paragraph 6.5.3.2.(d) of this appendix relating to "emission related 
system diagnostic trouble codes". If such identification is not possible, the 
manufacturer may use manufacturer controlled diagnostic trouble codes 
according to the same standard. The fault codes shall be fully accessible by 
standardised diagnostic equipment complying with the provisions of 
paragraph 6.5.3.3. of this appendix. 
6.5.3.6 
The connection interface between the vehicle and the diagnostic tester shall be 
standardised and shall meet all the requirements of the standard listed in 
paragraph 6.5.3.2.(c) of this appendix. The installation position shall be subject 
to agreement of the administrative department such that it is readily accessible 
by service personnel but protected from tampering by non-qualified personnel. 
7.0 
In-use performance 



--- PAGE 595 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 595 of 762 
 
7.1 
General requirements 
7.1.1 
Each monitor of the OBD system shall be executed at least once per driving cycle 
in which the monitoring conditions as specified in paragraph 7.2. of this 
appendix are met. Manufacturers may not use the calculated ratio (or any 
element thereof) or any other indication of monitor frequency as a monitoring 
condition for any monitor. 
7.1.2 
The In-Use Performance Ratio (IUPR) of a specific monitor M of the OBD 
systems and in-use performance of pollution control devices shall be: 
 
IUPRM = NumeratorM / DenominatorM 
7.1.3 
Comparison of numerator and denominator gives an indication of how often a 
specific monitor is operating relative to vehicle operation. To ensure all 
manufacturers are tracking IUPRM in the same manner, detailed requirements 
are given for defining and incrementing these counters. 
7.1.4 
If, according to the requirements of this annex, the vehicle is equipped with a 
specific monitor M, IUPRM shall be greater or equal to the following minimum 
values 
 
(a) 
0.260 for secondary air system monitors and other cold start related 
monitors; 
 
(b) 
0.520 for evaporative emission purge control monitors; 
 
(c) 
0.336 for all other monitors. 
7.1.5 
Vehicles shall comply with the requirements of paragraph 7.1.4. of this appendix 
for a mileage of at least the target useful life, as defined in paragraph 6.7. of this 
Regulation. 
7.1.6 
The requirements of this paragraph are deemed to be met for a particular monitor 
M, if for all vehicles of a particular OBD family manufactured in a particular 
calendar year the following statistical conditions hold: 
 
(a) 
The average IUPRM is equal or above the minimum value applicable to the 
monitor; 
 
(b) 
More than 50 per cent of all vehicles have an IUPRM equal or above the 
minimum value applicable to the monitor. 
7.1.7 
The manufacturer shall demonstrate to the Test Agencies that these statistical 
conditions are satisfied all monitors required to be reported by the OBD system 
according to clause 7.6. of this Appendix not later than 18 months thereafter. For 
this purpose, for OBD families consisting of more than 1,000 registrations that 
are subject to sampling within the sampling period, the process described in 
clause 9. of  this regulation shall be used without prejudice to the provisions of 
clause 7.1.9. of this Appendix. 



--- PAGE 596 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 596 of 762 
 
 
In addition to the requirements set out in clause 9 of this regulation and 
regardless of the result of the audit described in clause 9.2. of  this regulation, 
the Test Agency granting the approval shall apply the in-service conformity 
check for IUPR described in Appendix 6 of Annex C7 of  this regulation in an 
appropriate number of randomly determined cases. "In an appropriate number of 
randomly determined cases" means that this measure has a dissuasive effect on 
non- compliance with the requirements of clause 7. of this Appendix or the 
provision of manipulated, false or non-representative data for the audit. If no 
special circumstances apply and can be demonstrated by the Test Agency, 
random application of the in-service conformity check to 5% of the type 
approved OBD families shall be considered as sufficient for compliance with 
this requirement. For this purpose, Test Agency may find arrangements with the 
manufacturer for the reduction of double testing of a given OBD family as long 
as these arrangements do not harm the dissuasive effect of the Test Agency's 
own in-service conformity check on non-compliance with the requirements of 
this clause 7. of this Appendix. 
7.1.8 
For the entire test sample of vehicles the manufacturer shall report to the relevant 
Test Agency all of the in-use performance data to be reported by the OBD system 
according to clause 7.6. of this appendix in conjunction with an identification of 
the vehicle being tested and the methodology used for the selection of the tested 
vehicles from the fleet. Upon request, the Test Agency granting the approval 
shall make these data and the results of the statistical evaluation available to the 
Nodal Agency. 
7.1.9 
Public authorities and their delegates may pursue further tests on vehicles or 
collect appropriate data recorded by vehicles to verify compliance with the 
requirements of this Annex. 
7.2 
NumeratorM 
7.2.1 
The numerator of a specific monitor is a counter measuring the number of times 
a vehicle has been operated such that all monitoring conditions necessary for the 
specific monitor to detect a malfunction in order to warn the driver, as they have 
been implemented by the manufacturer, have been encountered. The numerator 
shall not be incremented more than once per driving cycle, unless there is 
reasoned technical justification. 
7.3 
DenominatorM 
7.3.1 
The purpose of the denominator is to provide a counter indicating the number of 
vehicle driving events, taking into account special conditions for a specific 
monitor. The denominator shall be incremented at least once per driving cycle, 
if during this driving cycle such conditions are met and the general denominator 
is incremented as specified in paragraph 7.5. of this appendix unless the 
denominator is disabled according to paragraph 7.7. of this appendix. 
7.3.2 
In addition to the requirements of paragraph 7.3.1. of this appendix: 
 
(a) 
 Secondary air system monitor denominator(s) shall be incremented if the 
commanded "on" operation of the secondary air system occurs for a time 
greater than or equal to 10 seconds. For purposes of determining this 



--- PAGE 597 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 597 of 762 
 
commanded "on" time, the OBD system may not include time during 
intrusive operation of the secondary air system solely for the purposes of 
monitoring. 
 
(b) 
 Denominators of monitors of systems only active during cold start shall 
be incremented if the component or strategy is commanded "on" for a 
time greater than or equal to 10 seconds. 
 
(c) 
 The denominator(s) for monitors of Variable Valve Timing (VVT) and/or 
control systems shall be incremented if the component is commanded to 
function (e.g., commanded "on", "open", "closed", "locked", etc.) on two 
or more occasions during the driving cycle or for a time greater than or 
equal to 10 seconds, whichever occurs first. 
 
(d) 
 For the following monitors, the denominator(s) shall be incremented by 
one if, in addition to meeting the requirements of this paragraph on at 
least one driving cycle, at least 800 cumulative kilometres of vehicle 
operation have been experienced since the last time the denominator was 
incremented: 
 
 
(i) 
Diesel oxidation catalyst; 
 
 
(ii) Diesel particulate filter. 
 
(e) 
 Without prejudice to requirements for the increment of denominators of 
other monitors the denominators of monitors of the following 
components shall be incremented if and only if the driving cycle started 
with a cold start: 
 
 
(i) 
Liquid (oil, engine coolant, fuel, SCR reagent) temperature sensors; 
 
 
(ii) Clean air (ambient air, intake air, charge air, inlet manifold) 
temperature sensors; 
 
 
(iii) Exhaust (EGR recirculation/cooling, exhaust gas turbo-charging, 
catalyst) temperature sensors; 
 
(f) 
 The denominators of monitors of the boost pressure control system shall 
be incremented if all of the following conditions are met 
 
 
(i) 
The general denominator conditions arc fulfilled; 
 
 
(ii) The boost pressure control system is active for a time greater than 
or equal to 15 seconds. 
 
(g) 
 Manufacturers may request to use special denominator conditions for 
certain components or systems and this request can be approved only if it 
can be demonstrated to the Test Agency by submitting data and/or an 
engineering evaluation that other conditions are necessary to allow for 
reliable detection of malfunctions. 



--- PAGE 598 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 598 of 762 
 
7.3.3 
For hybrid vehicles, vehicles that employ alternative engine start hardware or 
strategies (e.g. integrated starter and generators), or alternative fuel vehicles (e.g. 
dedicated, bi-fuel, or dual-fuel applications), the manufacturer may request the 
approval of the Test Agency to use alternative criteria to those set out in this 
paragraph for incrementing the denominator. In general, the Test Agency shall 
not approve alternative criteria for vehicles that only employ engine shut off at 
or near idle/vehicle stop conditions. Approval by the Test Agency of the 
alternative criteria shall be based on the equivalence of the alternative criteria to 
determine the amount of vehicle operation relative to the measure of 
conventional vehicle operation in accordance with the criteria in this paragraph. 
7.4 
Ignition cycle counter 
7.4.1 
The ignition cycle counter indicates the number of ignition cycles a vehicle has 
experienced. The ignition cycle counter may not be incremented more than once 
per driving cycle. 
7.5 
General denominator 
7.5.1 
The general denominator is a counter measuring the number of times a vehicle 
has been operated. It shall be incremented within 10 seconds, if and only if, the 
following criteria are satisfied on a single driving cycle: 
 
(a) 
Cumulative time since engine start is greater than or equal to 600 seconds 
while at an elevation of less than 2,440 m above sea level and at an ambient 
temperature of greater than or equal to -7 °C; 
 
(b) 
Cumulative vehicle operation at or above 40 km/h occurs for greater than 
or equal to 300 seconds while at an elevation of less than 2,440 m above 
sea level and at an ambient temperature of greater than or equal to -7 °C; 
 
(c) 
Continuous vehicle operation at idle (i.e. accelerator pedal released by 
driver and vehicle speed less than or equal to 1.6 km/h) for greater than or 
equal to 30 seconds while at an elevation of less than 2,440 m above sea 
level and at an ambient temperature of greater than or equal to -7 °C. 
7.6 
Reporting and increasing counters 
7.6.1 
The OBD system shall report, in accordance with the ISO 15031-5 specifications 
of the standard listed in paragraph 6.5.3.2.(a) of this appendix, the ignition cycle 
counter and general denominator as well as separate numerators and 
denominators for the following monitors, if their presence on the vehicle is 
required by this annex: 
 
(a) 
 Catalysts (each bank to be reported separately); 
 
(b) 
 Oxygen/exhaust gas sensors, including secondary oxygen sensors (each 
sensor to be reported separately); 
 
(c) 
 Evaporative system; 



--- PAGE 599 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 599 of 762 
 
 
(d) 
 EGR system; 
 
(e) 
 VVT system; 
 
(f) 
 Secondary air system; 
 
(g) 
 Particulate filter; 
 
(h) 
 NOx after-treatment system (e.g. NOx adsorber, NOx reagent/catalyst 
system); 
 
(i) 
 Boost pressure control system. 
7.6.2 
For specific components or systems that have multiple monitors, which are 
required to be reported by this point (e.g. oxygen sensor bank 1 may have 
multiple monitors for sensor response or other sensor characteristics), the OBD 
system shall separately track numerators and denominators for each of the 
specific monitors and report only the corresponding numerator and denominator 
for the specific monitor that has the lowest numerical ratio. If two or more 
specific monitors have identical ratios, the corresponding numerator and 
denominator for the specific monitor that has the highest denominator shall be 
reported for the specific component. 
7.6.2.1 
Numerators and denominators for specific monitors of components or systems, 
that are monitoring continuously for short circuit or open circuit failures are 
exempted from reporting. 
 
"Continuously", if used in this context means monitoring is always enabled and 
sampling of the signal used for monitoring occurs at a rate no less than two 
samples per second and the presence or the absence of the failure relevant to that 
monitor has to be concluded within 15 seconds. 
 
If for control purposes, a computer input component is sampled less frequently, 
the signal of the component may instead be evaluated each time sampling occurs. 
 
It is not required to activate an output component/system for the sole purpose of 
monitoring that output component/system. 
7.6.3 
All counters, when incremented, shall be incremented by an integer of one. 
7.6.4 
The minimum value of each counter is 0, the maximum value shall not be less 
than 65,535, notwithstanding any other requirements on standardised storage and 
reporting of the OBD system. 
7.6.5 
If either the numerator or denominator for a specific monitor reaches its 
maximum value, both counters for that specific monitor shall be divided by two 
before being incremented again according to the provisions set in paragraphs 7.2. 
and 7.3. of this appendix. If the ignition cycle counter or the general denominator 
reaches its maximum value, the respective counter shall change to zero at its next 
increment according to the provisions set in paragraphs 7.4. and 7.5. of this 
appendix, respectively. 



--- PAGE 600 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 600 of 762 
 
7.6.6 
Each counter shall be reset to zero only when a non-volatile memory reset occurs 
(e.g. reprogramming event, etc.) or, if the numbers are stored in keep-alive 
memory (KAM), when KAM is lost due to an interruption in electrical power to 
the control module (e.g. battery disconnect, etc.). 
7.6.7 
The manufacturer shall take measures to ensure that the values of numerator and 
denominator cannot be reset or modified, except in cases provided for explicitly 
in this paragraph. 
7.7 
Disablement of numerators and denominators and of the general denominator 
7.7.1 
Within 10 seconds of a malfunction being detected, which disables a monitor 
required to meet the monitoring conditions of this annex (i.e. a pending or 
confirmed code is stored), the OBD system shall disable further incrementing of 
the corresponding numerator and denominator for each monitor that is disabled. 
When the malfunction is no longer detected (i.e., the pending code is erased 
through self-clearing or through a scan tool command), incrementing of all 
corresponding numerators and denominators shall resume within 10 seconds 
7.7.2 
Within 10 seconds of the start of a Power Take-off Operation (PTO) that disables 
a monitor required to meet the monitoring conditions of this annex, the OBD 
system shall disable further incrementing of the corresponding numerator and 
denominator for each monitor that is disabled. When the PTO operation ends, 
incrementing of all corresponding numerators and denominators shall resume 
within 10 seconds. 
7.7.3 
The OBD system shall disable further incrementing of the numerator and 
denominator of a specific monitor within 10 seconds, if a malfunction of any 
component used to determine the criteria within the definition of the specific 
monitor's denominator (i.e. vehicle speed, ambient temperature, elevation, idle 
operation, engine cold start, or time of operation) has been detected and the 
corresponding pending fault code has been stored. Incrementing of the 
numerator and denominator shall resume within 10 seconds when the 
malfunction is no longer present (e.g. pending code erased through self-clearing 
or by a scan tool command). 
7.7.4 
The OBD system shall disable further incrementing of the general denominator 
within 10 seconds, if a malfunction has been detected of any component used to 
determine whether the criteria in paragraph 7.5. of this appendix are satisfied 
(i.e. vehicle speed, ambient temperature, elevation, idle operation, or time of 
operation) and the corresponding pending fault code has been stored. The 
general denominator may not be disabled from incrementing for any other 
condition. Incrementing of the general denominator shall resume within 
10 seconds when the malfunction is no longer present (e.g. pending code erased 
through self-clearing or by a scan tool command). 



--- PAGE 601 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 601 of 762 
 
Annex C6 
Verifying Real Driving Emissions (RDE) 
1.0 
INTRODUCTION, DEFINITIONS AND ABBREVIATIONS 
1.1 
Introduction 
 
This Annex describes the procedure to verify the Real Driving Emissions (RDE) 
performance of light passenger and commercial vehicles for (with reference to 
WLTP method for Type I testing) all M and N Categories of vehicles with GVW 
up to 3.5 Tons. 
 
Note: - This Regulation applies to the type approval of vehicles of categories M2 and N1 
with a technical permissible maximum laden mass not exceeding 3 500kg and to all vehicles 
of category M1 and which meet the condition as per Gazette Notification. 
1.2 
Definitions : For the purposes of this Annex, in addition to definitions in this 
regulation, following definitions shall apply: 
1.2.1 
"Vehicle type with regard to Real Driving Emissions" means a group of 
vehicles which do not differ with respect to the criteria constituting a "PEMS test 
family" as defined in Appendix 7 of this Annex. 
1.2.2 
"Accuracy" means the difference between a measured value and a reference 
value, traceable to a national standard and describes the correctness of a result. 
1.2.3 
"Analyser" means any measurement device that is not part of the vehicle but 
installed to determine the concentration or the amount of gaseous or particle 
criteria emissions. 
1.2.4 
"Axis intercept" of a linear regression (a0) means: 
 
𝑎𝑜= 𝑦̅ −(𝑎1 × 𝑥̅) 
 
where: 
 
a1 = slope of the regression line 
 
x ̅= mean value of the reference parameter 
 
y ̅= mean value of the parameter to be verified 
1.2.5 
"Calibration" means the process of setting a measurement system's response so 
that its output agrees with a range of reference signals. 
1.2.6 
"Coefficient of determination" (r2) means: 
 
𝑟2 = 1 −
∑
[𝑦𝑖−𝑎0 −(𝑎1 × 𝑋𝑖)]2
𝑛
𝑖=1
∑
(𝑦𝑖−𝑦̅)2
𝑛
𝑖=1
 
 
where: 



--- PAGE 602 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 602 of 762 
 
 
𝑎0 
= 
Axis intercept of the linear regression line 
 
𝑎1  
= 
Slope of the linear regression line 
 
𝑋𝑖  
= 
Measured reference value 
 
𝑦𝑖 
= 
Measured value of the parameter to be verified 
 
𝑦̅ 
= 
Mean value of the parameter to be verified 
 
n  
= 
Number of values 
1.2.7 
"Cross-correlation coefficient" (r) means: 
 
𝑟=
∑
(𝑥𝑖−𝑥̅) × (𝑦𝑖−𝑦̅)
𝑛−1
𝑖=1
√∑
(𝑥𝑖−𝑥̅)2
𝑛−1
𝑥=1
× √∑
(𝑦𝑖−𝑦̅)2
𝑛−1
𝑖=1
 
 
where: 
 
𝑥𝑖 
= 
Measured reference value 
 
𝑦𝑖 
= 
Measured value of the parameter to be verified 
 
𝑥̅ 
= 
Mean reference value 
 
𝑦̅  
= 
Mean value of the parameter to be verified 
 
n  
= 
Number of values 
1.2.8 
"Delay time" means the difference in time between the change of the component 
to be measured at the reference point and a system response of 10 per cent of the 
final reading (t10) with the sampling probe being defined as the reference point. 
1.2.9 
"Engine control unit (ECU) signals or data" means any vehicle information 
and signal recorded from the vehicle network using the protocols specified in 
clause 3.4.5. of Appendix 1 of this Annex. 
1.2.10 
"Engine control unit" means the electronic unit that controls various actuators 
to ensure the optimal performance of the engine. 
1.2.11 
"Emissions" also referred to as "components", "pollutant components" or 
"pollutant emissions" means the regulated gaseous or particle constituents of the 
exhaust. 
1.2.12 
"Exhaust", also referred to as exhaust gas, means the total of all gaseous and 
particulate components emitted at the exhaust outlet or tailpipe as the result of 
fuel combustion within the vehicle’s internal combustion engine. 



--- PAGE 603 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 603 of 762 
 
1.2.13 
"Exhaust emissions" means the emissions of particles, characterized as 
particulate matter and particle number, and of gaseous components at the tailpipe 
of a vehicle. 
1.2.14 
"Full scale" means the full range of an analyser, flow-measuring instrument or 
sensor as specified by the equipment manufacturer. If a sub-range of the analyser, 
flow-measuring instrument or sensor is used for measurements, full scale shall 
be understood as the maximum reading of the sub-range. 
1.2.15 
"Hydrocarbon response factor" of a particular hydrocarbon species means the 
ratio between the reading of a FID and the concentration of the hydrocarbon 
species under consideration in the reference gas cylinder, expressed as ppmC1. 
1.2.16 
"Major maintenance" means the adjustment, repair or replacement of an 
analyser, flow-measuring instrument or sensor that could affect the accuracy of 
measurements. 
1.2.17 
"Noise” means two times the root mean square of ten standard deviations, each 
calculated from the zero responses measured at a constant frequency which is a 
multiple of 1,0 Hz during a period of 30 seconds. 
1.2.18 
“Non-methane hydrocarbons" (NMHC) means the Total Hydrocarbons (THC) 
minus the methane (CH4) contribution. 
1.2.19 
"Particle number emissions" (PN) means the total number of solid particles 
emitted from the vehicle exhaust quantified according to the dilution, sampling 
and measurement methods as specified in this regulation. 
1.2.20 
"Precision" means the degree to which repeated measurements under unchanged 
conditions show the same results. 
1.2.21 
"Reading" means the numerical value displayed by an analyser, flow-measuring 
instrument, sensor or any other measurement devise applied in the context of 
vehicle emission measurements. 
1.2.22 
"Response time" (t90) means the difference in time between the change of the 
component to be measured at the reference point and a system response of 90 per 
cent of the final reading (t90) with the sampling probe being defined as the 
reference point, whereby the change of the measured component is at least 60 per 
cent full scale (FS) and takes place in less than 0.1 second. The system response 
time consists of the delay time to the system and of the rise time of the system. 
1.2.23 
[Reserved] 
1.2.24 
"Root mean square" (xrms) means the square root of the arithmetic mean of the 
squares of values and defined as: 
 
𝑥𝑟𝑚𝑠= √1
𝑛(𝑥12 + 𝑥22 + ⋯+ 𝑥𝑛2) 



--- PAGE 604 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 604 of 762 
 
 
x  
= 
Measured or calculated value 
 
n  
= 
Number of values 
1.2.25 
"Rise time"means the difference in time between the 10 per cent and 90 per cent 
response of the final reading (t10 to t90), as depicted in Figure 2. 
1.2.26 
"Sensor" means any measurement device that is not part of the vehicle itself but 
installed to determine parameters other than the concentration of criteria 
emissions and the exhaust mass flow. 
1.2.27 
"Span" means to adjust an instrument so that it gives a proper response to a 
calibration standard that represents between 75 per cent and 100 per cent of the 
maximum value in the instrument range or expected range of use. 
1.2.28 
"Span response" means the mean response to a span signal over a time interval 
of at least 30 s. 
1.2.29 
"Span response drift" means the difference between the mean response to a span 
signal and the actual span signal that is measured at a defined time period after 
an analyser, flow-measuring instrument or sensor was accurately spanned. 
1.2.30 
"Slope" of a linear regression (a1) means: 
 
𝑎1 =
∑
(𝑦𝑖−𝑦̅) × (𝑥𝑖−𝑥̅)
𝑛
𝑖=1
∑
(𝑥𝑖−𝑥̅)2
𝑛
𝑖=1
 
 
where: 
 
𝑥̅ 
= 
Mean value of the reference parameter. 
 
𝑦̅ 
= 
Mean value of the parameter to be verified. 
 
𝑥𝑖   = 
Actual value of the reference parameter 
 
𝑦𝑖 
= 
Actual value of the parameter to be verified. 
 
n 
= 
Number of values. 
 
"Standard error of estimate" (SEE) means: 
 
𝑆𝐸𝐸= √∑
(𝑦𝑖−𝑦́)2
𝑛
𝑖=1
(𝑛−2)
 
 
Where: 
 
𝑦́ 
= 
Estimated value of the parameter to be verified 
 
𝑦𝑖 
= 
Actual value of the parameter to be verified 



--- PAGE 605 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 605 of 762 
 
 
𝑥𝑚𝑎𝑥 = 
Maximum actual values of the reference parameter 
 
n 
= 
Number of values 
1.2.31 
"Total hydrocarbons" (THC) means the sum of all volatile compounds 
measurable by a flame ionization detector (FID). 
1.2.32 
"Traceable" means the ability to relate a measurement or reading through an 
unbroken chain of comparisons to a known and commonly agreed standard." 
1.2.33 
"Transformation time" means the time difference between a change of 
concentration or flow (t0)  
at the reference point and a system response of 50 
per cent of the final reading (t50). 
1.2.34 
"Type of analyser", also referred to as "analyser type" means a group of 
analysers produced by the same manufacturer that apply an identical principle to 
determine the concentration of one specific gaseous component or the number of 
particles. 
1.2.35 
"Type of exhaust mass flow meter" means a group of exhaust mass flow meters 
produced by the same manufacturer that share a similar tube inner diameter and 
function on an identical principle to determine the mass flow rate of the exhaust 
gas. 
1.2.36 
"Validation of PEMS"  means the process of evaluating on a chassis 
dynamometer the correct installation and functionality within the given accuracy 
limits of a Portable Emissions Measurement System and exhaust mass flow rate 
measurements as obtained from one or multiple non-traceable exhaust mass flow 
meters or as calculated from sensors or ECU signals. 
1.2.37 
"Verification" means the process of evaluating whether the measured or 
calculated output of an analyser, flow-measuring instrument, sensor or signal or 
method agrees with a reference signal or value within one or more predetermined 
thresholds for acceptance. 
1.2.38 
"Zero" means the calibration of an analyser, flow-measuring instrument or sensor 
so that it gives an accurate response to a zero signal. 
1.2.39 
"Zero response" means the mean response to a zero signal over a time interval 
of at least 30s. 
1.2.40 
"Zero response drift" means the difference between the mean response to a zero 
signal and the actual zero signal that is measured over a defined time period after 
an analyser, flow-measuring instrument or sensor has been accurately zero 
calibrated. 
1.2.41 
"Off-vehicle charging hybrid electric vehicle" (OVC-HEV) means a hybrid 
electric vehicle that can be charged from an external source." 
1.2.42 
"Not off-vehicle charging hybrid electric vehicle" (NOVC- HEV)  means a 
hybrid electric vehicle that cannot be charged from an external source. 



--- PAGE 606 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 606 of 762 
 
1.2.43 
M1/M2/ N1 Low Powered Vehicles; 
 
“M1/M2/N1 Low powered Vehicles” Class 1 vehicles having a power to mass in 
running order minus 75 kg ratio  ≤ 22 W/kg and max design speed ≤ 70kmph 
1.2.44 
“Real driving emissions (RDE)” means the emissions of a vehicle under its 
normal conditions of use. 
1.2.45 
“Portable emissions measurement system (PEMS)” means portable emissions 
measurement system meeting the requirements specified in Appendix 1 to this 
Annex. 
1.2.46 
“Adapter” means a pipe attachment that connects the exhaust tailpipe of the 
tested vehicle to the exhaust mass flow meter. 
1.2.47 
"Calibration gas" means a gas mixture used to calibrate gas analysers. 
1.2.48 
"Reference value" means a value traceable to a national or international standard 
(Figure 1). 
1.2.49 
"Set point" means the target value a control system aims to reach. 
1.2.50 
"Zero gas" means a gas containing no analyte, which is use to set a zero response 
on an analyser. 
1.2.51 
"Flex fuel vehicle" means a vehicle with one fuel storage system that can run on 
different mixtures of two or more fuels. 
1.2.52 
"Mono-fuel vehicle" means a vehicle that is designed to run primarily on one 
type of fuel. 
1.2.53 
"Flex fuel ethanol vehicle" means a flex fuel vehicle that can run on petrol or a 
mixture of petrol and ethanol up to an 85 per cent ethanol blend (E85). 
1.2.54 
The term "particle" is conventionally used for the matter being characterised 
(measured) in the airborne phase (suspended matter), and the term "particulate" 
for the deposited matter. 
1.2.55 
"Criteria emissions" means those emission compounds for which limits are set 
in CMVR. 
1.2.56 
"Deactivated internal combustion engine" means an internal combustion 
engine for which one of the following criteria apply: 
 
- the recorded engine speed is < 50 rpm; 
   - the exhaust mass flow rate is measured at < 3kg/h;  
- the measured exhaust mass flow rate drops to <15% of the typical steady-state 
exhaust mass flow rate at idling.  
1.2.57 
"Engine capacity" means either of the following: 



--- PAGE 607 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 607 of 762 
 
 
- for reciprocating piston engines, the nominal engine swept volume; 
 
- for rotary piston (Wankel) engines, double the nominal engine swept volume. 
1.2.58 
"Extended factor" means a factor which accounts for the effect of extended 
ambient temperature or altitude conditions upon criteria emissions. 
 
 
 
Figure 1 - Definition of accuracy, precision and reference value 
 
 
 
Figure 2 - Definition of delay, rise, transformation and response times 
1.3 
Vehicle characteristics and driver 
1.3.1 
"Actual mass of the vehicle" means the mass in running order plus the mass of 
the fitted optional equipment to an individual vehicle. 
1.3.2 
"Auxiliary devices" means energy consuming, converting, storing or supplying 
non-peripheral devices or systems which are installed in the vehicle for purposes 
other than the propulsion of the vehicle and are therefore not considered to be 
part of the power train. 



--- PAGE 608 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 608 of 762 
 
1.3.3 
"Mass in running order" means the mass of the vehicle, with its fuel tank(s) 
filled to at least 90 per cent of its or their capacity/capacities, including the mass 
of the driver, fuel and liquids, fitted with the standard equipment in accordance 
with the manufacturer's specifications and, when they are fitted, the mass of the 
bodywork, the cabin, the coupling and the spare wheel(s) as well as the tools. 
1.3.4 
"Maximum Permissible Test mass of the vehicle" means the sum of: 
 
- the actual mass of the vehicle; 
 
- 90% of the difference between the technically permissible maximum laden mass 
and the actual mass of the vehicle (Figure 3). 
1.3.5 
"Odometer" means an instrument indicating to the driver the total distance 
driven by the vehicle since its production. 
1.3.6 
"Optional equipment" means all the features not included in the standard 
equipment which are fitted to a vehicle under the responsibility of the 
manufacturer, and that can be ordered by the customer. 
1.3.7 
"Power-to-test mass-ratio" corresponds to the ratio of the rated engine power 
and of the test mass. 
1.3.8 
“Power-to-mass-ratio” is the ratio of rated power to the mass in running order 
minus 75 kg. 
1.3.9 
"Rated engine power (Prated)" means maximum net power of the engine or 
motor in kW declared by the manufacturer according to CMVR.. 
1.3.10 
"Technically permissible maximum laden mass" means the maximum mass 
allocated to a vehicle on the basis of its construction features and its design 
performances. 
1.3.11 
"Vehicle OBD information" means information relating to an on-board 
diagnostic system for any electronic system on the vehicle 



--- PAGE 609 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 609 of 762 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3 - Mass definitions 
1.3.12 
"Cold start PEMS trip" means a trip with conditioning of the vehicle prior to 
the test (as described in point 5.3 of this Annexcold). 
1.3.13 
"Hot start PEMS trip" means a trip without conditioning of the vehicle prior to 
the test (as described in point 5.3 in the present Regulation), but with a warm 
engine with engine coolant temperature and/or engine oil temperature above 70 
°C. In the case that measuring the coolant temperature is not feasible, on request 
of the manufacturer and with approval of the Test Agency, instead of using the 
coolant temperature, the engine oil temperature may be used. 
1.3.14 
"Periodically regenerating system" means an exhaust emissions control device 
(e.g. catalytic converter, particulate trap) that requires a periodical regeneration. 
1.3.15 
"Reagent" means any product other than fuel that is stored on-board the vehicle 
and is provided to the exhaust after-treatment system upon request of the 
emission control system. 
1.3.16 
"Test start" means (Figure 4) whichever occurs first from: 
 
- the first activation of the internal combustion engine; 
 
- the first movement of the vehicle with speed greater than 1 km/h for OVC-
HEVs and NOVC-HEVs. 



--- PAGE 610 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 610 of 762 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4 - Test start definition 
1.3.17 
"Test end" means (Figure 5) that the vehicle has  completed the trip and 
whichever occurs last from: 
 
- the final deactivation of the internal combustion engine; 
 
- the vehicle stops and the speed is lower than or equal to 1 km/h for OVC-
HEVs and NOVC-HEVS finishing the test with deactivated internal combustion 
engine.: 
 
 
 
Figure 5    Test end definition 
1.4 
"Cold start period" means the period from the test start as defined in paragraph 
1.3.16 until the point when the vehicle has run for 5 minutes. If the coolant 
temperature is determined, the cold start period ends once the coolant is at least 
70 °C for the first time, but no later than 5 minutes after test start. In the case that 
measuring the coolant temperature is not feasible, on request of the manufacturer 
and with approval of the Test Agency, instead of using the coolant temperature, 
the engine oil temperature may be used. 
1.5 
Abbreviations 



--- PAGE 611 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 611 of 762 
 
 
Abbreviations refer generically to both the singular and the plural forms of 
abbreviated terms. 
 
CH4  
Methane 
 
CLD 
Chemiluminescence Detector 
 
CO 
Carbon Monoxide 
 
CO2 
Carbon Dioxide 
 
CVS 
Constant Volume Sampler 
 
DCT 
Dual Clutch Transmission 
 
ECU 
Engine Control Unit 
 
EFM 
Exhaust mass Flow Meter 
 
FID 
Flame Ionisation Detector 
 
FS 
Full scale 
 
GNSS 
Global Navigation Satellite System  
 
H2O 
Water 
 
HC 
Hydrocarbons 
 
HCLD 
Heated Chemiluminescence Detector 
 
HEV 
Hybrid Electric Vehicle 
 
ICE 
Internal Combustion Engine 
 
ID 
Identification number or code 
 
LPG 
Liquid Petroleum Gas 
 
MAW 
Moving Average Window 
 
Max 
maximum value 
 
N2 
Nitrogen 
 
NDIR 
Non-Dispersive InfraRed analyser 
 
NDUV 
Non-Dispersive UltraViolet analyser 
 
MIDC 
Modified Indian Driving Cycle 
 
NG 
Natural Gas 



--- PAGE 612 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 612 of 762 
 
 
NMC 
Non-Methane Cutter 
 
NMC FID 
Non-Methane Cutter in combination with a Flame-Ionisation 
Detector 
 
NMHC 
Non-Methane Hydrocarbons 
 
NO 
Nitrogen Monoxide 
 
No. 
Number 
 
NO2 
Nitrogen Dioxide 
 
NOX 
Nitrogen Oxides 
 
NTE 
Not-to-exceed 
 
O2 
Oxygen 
 
OBD 
On-Board Diagnostics 
 
PEMS 
Portable Emissions Measurement System 
 
PHEV 
Plug-in Hybrid Electric Vehicle 
 
PN 
Particle number 
 
RDE 
Real Driving Emissions 
 
RPA 
Relative Positive Acceleration 
 
SCR 
Selective Catalytic Reduction 
 
SEE 
Standard Error of Estimate 
 
THC 
Total Hydro Carbons 
 
VIN 
Vehicle Identification Number 
2.0 
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 
2.1 
Not-to-exceed Emission Limits 
2.1.1 
Throughout the normal life of a vehicle type approved according to this Part, its 
emissions determined in accordance with the requirements of this Annex and 
emitted at any possible RDE test performed in accordance with the requirements 
of this Annex, shall not be higher than the following not-to-exceed (NTE) values: 
 
NTEpollutant = CFpollutant  X Limit 
 
where Limit is the applicable emission limit laid down in Gazette Notification 



--- PAGE 613 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 613 of 762 
 
 
Final Conformity Factors 
 
The conformity factor CFpollutant for the respective pollutant will be applicable 
as notified and amended from time to time.. 
2.2 
The manufacturer shall confirm compliance with clause 2.1 of this Annex by 
completing the certificate set out in Appendix 9 of this Annex. 
2.3 
The RDE tests required by this Annex at type approval and during the lifetime of 
a vehicle provide a presumption of conformity with the requirement set out in 
Point 2.1. The presumed conformity may be reassessed by additional RDE tests. 
2.4 
Test Agency shall ensure that vehicles can be tested with PEMS on public roads 
in accordance with the procedures under national law, while respecting local road 
traffic legislation and safety requirements. 
2.5 
Facilitation of PEMS Testing: 
 
Manufacturer shall ensure that vehicles can be tested with PEMS on public roads 
in accordance with the procedures under their own national law, while respecting 
local road traffic legislation and safety requirements. 
 
Manufacturers shall ensure that vehicles can be tested with PEMS. This shall 
include: 
 
(a) 
 
constructing the exhaust pipes in order to facilitate sampling of the 
exhaust, or making available suitable adapters for exhaust pipes for 
testing by the authorities 
 
(b) 
 
providing guidance available online, without the need of registration or 
login, on how to attach a PEMS system to vehicles approved under this 
Regulation; 
 
(c) 
 
granting access to [relevant to this Regulation, as mentioned in Table 1 
of Appendix 1]; and 
 
(d) 
 
making the necessary administrative arrangements. 
3.0 
RDE TEST TO BE PERFORMED 
3.1 
Resrved 
3.1.1 
For type approval, the exhaust mass flow shall be determined by measurement 
equipment functioning independently from the vehicle and no vehicle ECU data 
shall be used in this respect. 
 
Outside the type approval context, alternative methods to determine the exhaust 
mass flow can be used according to clause 7.2 of Appendix 2 of this Annex. 



--- PAGE 614 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 614 of 762 
 
3.1.2 
If the Test Agency is not satisfied with the data quality check and validation 
results of a PEMS test conducted according to Appendices 1 and 4 of this Annex, 
the Test Agency may consider the test to be void. In such case, the test data and 
the reasons for voiding the test shall be recorded by the Test Agency. 
3.1.3 
Reporting and Dissemination of RDE type approval test Information. 
3.1.3.1 
A technical report shall be prepared in accordance with Appendix 8 of this 
Annex. 
3.1.3.2 
The manufacturer shall ensure that the information listed in point 3.1.3.2.1. is 
made available on a publicly accessible website without costs and without the 
need for the user to reveal his identity or sign up. The manufacturer shall keep 
the Test Agencies informed on the location of the website. 
3.1.3.2.1 Reserved. 
3.1.3.2.2 Reserved. 
3.1.3.3 
Reserved. 
3.1.3.4 
Reserved. 
4.0 
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 
4.1 
The RDE performance shall be demonstrated by testing vehicles on the road 
operated over their normal driving patterns, conditions and payloads. The RDE 
test shall be representative for vehicles operated on their real driving routes, with 
their normal load. 
4.2 
The manufacturer shall demonstrate to the Test Agency that the chosen vehicle, 
driving patterns, conditions and payloads are representative for the PEMS Test 
family. The payload and altitude requirements, as specified in clause 5.1 and 5.2 
of this Annex, shall be used ex-ante to determine whether the conditions are 
acceptable for RDE testing. 
4.3 
The Test Agency shall propose a test trip in urban, rural and motorway 
environments meeting the requirements of clause 6 of this Annex. For the purpose 
of trip selection, the definition of urban, rural and motorway operation shall be 
based on a topographic map. 
 
The urban part of the trip should be driven on urban roads with a speed limit of 
45 km/h or less. In case the urban part of the trip needs to be driven for a limited 
period of time on roads with speed limit higher than 45 km/h, the vehicle shall be 
driven with speeds up to 45km/h. 
4.4 
If for a vehicle the collection of ECU data influences the vehicle's emissions or 
performance the test shall be considered as non-compliant. Such functionality 
shall be considered as a 'defeat device' as defined in clause 3.5.7 of  this 
regulation. 



--- PAGE 615 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 615 of 762 
 
4.5 
In order to assess emissions during trips in hot start, vehicle shall be tested 
without conditioning the vehicle as described in clause 5.3 of this Annex, but 
with a warm engine with engine coolant temperature and/or engine oil 
temperature above 70 °C. 
4.6 
The vehicle, including the emission related components, shall be in good 
mechanical condition and shall have been run in and driven at least 3,000 km 
before the test. The mileage and the age of the vehicle used for RDE testing shall 
be recorded. 
4.7 
The tyre types and pressure shall be according to the vehicle manufacturer's 
recommendations. The tyre pressure shall be checked prior to the pre-
conditioning and adjusted to the recommended values if needed. 
4.8 
For diesel vehicles, if the urea tank level does not guarantee the completion of 
the RDE testing, the reagent must be refilled prior to testing. Warnings/reagent 
level in the dashboard shall be checked prior the test. 
4.9 
For RDE tests, the vehicle On-Board Diagnostics (OBD) shall be checked and 
documented at the selection stage. 
4.10 
Compliance of the software tool used to verify the trip validity and calculate 
emissions in accordance with the provisions laid down in Appendices 4, 5, 10, 
7a, and 7b shall be validated by the PEMS equipment suppliers. Where such 
software tool is incorporated in the PEMS instrument, proof/self declaration of 
the validation shall be provided along with the instrument. 
4.11 
Vehicle condition 
 
All vehicles, and in particular OVC-HEVs vehicles may be tested in any 
selectable mode, including battery charge mode. On the basis of technical 
evidence provided by the manufacturer and with the agreement of the Test 
Agency, the dedicated driver-selectable modes for very special limited purposes 
shall not be considered (e.g. maintenance mode, race driving, crawler mode). All 
remaining modes used for forward driving shall be considered and the criteria 
emissions limits shall be fulfilled in all these modes. 
 
Modifications that affect the vehicle aerodynamics are not permitted with the 
exception of the PEMS installation.  
 
Vehicles should not be tested with an empty starter battery. In case the vehicle 
has problems starting, the battery shall be replaced following the 
recommendations of the vehicle's manufacturer. 
 
The vehicle's test mass comprising of the driver, a witness of the test (if 
applicable), the test equipment, including the mounting and the power supply 
devices and any artificial payload shall be between the actual mass of the vehicle 
and the maximum permissible test mass of the vehicle at the beginning of the test 
and shall not be increased during the test. 



--- PAGE 616 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 616 of 762 
 
 
The test vehicles shall not be driven with the intention to generate a passed or 
failed test due to extreme driving that do not represent normal conditions of use. 
If necessary, verification of normal driving may be based on expert judgement 
made by or on behalf of the granting Test Agency through cross-correlation on 
several signals, which may include exhaust flow rate, exhaust temperature, CO2, 
O2 etc. in combination with vehicle speed, acceleration and GNSS data and 
potentially further vehicle data parameters like engine speed, gear, accelerator 
pedal position etc. 
4.12 
Rounding of data in the data exchange file, created according to Clause 13 of 
Appendix 4 is not permitted. In the pre-processing file, the data may be rounded 
to the same order of magnitude of the accuracy of the measurement of a respective 
parameter. 
 
The intermediate and final emission test results, as calculated in Appendix 9, shall 
be rounded in one step to the number of places to the right of the decimal point 
indicated by the applicable emission standard plus one additional significant 
figure. Preceding steps in the calculations shall not be rounded. 
5.0 
BOUNDARY CONDITIONS 
5.1 
Vehicle Payload and Test Mass 
5.1.1 
The vehicle's basic payload shall comprise the driver, a witness of the test (if 
applicable) and the test equipment, including the mounting and the power supply 
devices. 
5.1.2 
The vehicle's test mass comprising of the driver, a witness of the test (if 
applicable), the test equipment, including the mounting and the power supply 
devices and any artificial payload shall be between the actual mass of the vehicle 
and the maximum permissible test mass of the vehicle at the beginning of the test 
and shall not be increased during the test 
5.2 
Ambient Conditions 
5.2.1 
The test shall be conducted under ambient conditions laid down in this clause 5.2. 
The ambient conditions become "extended" when at least one of the temperature 
and altitude conditions is extended. The correction factor for extended conditions 
for temperature and altitude shall only be applied once. If a part of the test or the 
entire test is performed outside of extended conditions, the test shall be invalid. 
5.2.2 
Moderate altitude conditions: Altitude lower or equal to 700 m above sea level. 
5.2.3 
Extended altitude conditions: Altitude higher than 700 m above sea level and 
lower or equal to 1300 m above sea level. 
5.2.4 
Moderate temperature conditions: Greater than or equal to 283 K (10°C) and 
lower than or equal to 313 K (40°C) 



--- PAGE 617 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 617 of 762 
 
5.2.5 
Extended temperature conditions: Greater than or equal to 281 K (8°C) and lower 
than 283 K (10°C) or greater than 313 K (40°C) and lower than or equal to 318 
K (45°C) . 
5.3 
Vehicle conditioning for cold engine-start testing 
 
Before RDE testing, the vehicle shall be preconditioned in the following way: 
 
Driven for at least 30 min, parked with doors and bonnet closed and kept in 
engine-off status within moderate or extended altitude and temperatures in 
accordance with clause 5.2.2 to 5.2.5 of this Chapter between 6 and 72 hours. 
Exposure to extreme atmospheric conditions (heavy snowfall, storm, hail) and 
excessive amounts of dust should be avoided. The validation test in laboratory 
also can be used as preconditioning. Before the test start, the vehicle and 
equipment shall be checked for damages and the absence of warning signals, 
suggesting malfunctioning. In the case of a malfunction the source of the 
malfunctioning shall be identified and corrected or the vehicle shall be rejected. 
 
When several RDE tests are conducted in consecutive days, the previous day 
RDE test can be used as pre-conditioning drive for the current day test, if 
requested by manufacturer. 
5.4 
 The dynamic conditions encompass the effect of road grade, head wind and 
driving dynamics (accelerations, decelerations) and auxiliary systems upon 
energy consumption and emissions of the test vehicle. The verification of the 
normality of dynamic conditions shall be done after the test is completed, using 
the recorded PEMS data. This verification shall be conducted in 2 steps: 
5.4.1 
The overall excess or insufficiency of driving dynamics during the trip shall be 
checked using the methods described in Appendix 7A to this Annex. 
5.4.2 
If the trip results are valid following the verifications in accordance with clause 
5.4.1 of this Annex, the methods for verifying the normality of the test conditions 
as laid down in Appendices 5, , 7A and 7B to this Annex shall be applied. 
5.5 
Vehicle Condition and Operation 
5.5.1 
Auxiliary devices 
 
The air conditioning system or other auxiliary devices shall be operated in a way 
which corresponds to their typically intended use during real driving on the road. 
Any use shall be documented. The vehicle windows shall be closed when the air 
conditioning or heating are used. 
5.5.2 
Vehicles equipped with periodically regenerating systems 
5.5.2.1 
"Periodically regenerating systems" shall be understood according to the 
definition in clause 3.8.1  of this regulation. 



--- PAGE 618 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 618 of 762 
 
5.5.2.2 
All results will be corrected with the Ki factors or with the Ki offsets developed 
by the procedures in Annex B6 - Appendix 1 of this Regulation for type-approval 
of a vehicle type with a periodically regenerating system. The Ki factor or the Ki 
offset shall be applied to the final results after evaluation in accordance with 
Annex 10. 
5.5.2.3 
If the emissions do not fulfil the requirements of clause 3.1.0 of this Annex, then 
the occurrence of regeneration shall be verified. The verification of regeneration 
may be based on expert judgement through cross-correlation of several of the 
following signals, which may include exhaust temperature, PN, CO2, O2 
measurements in combination with vehicle speed and acceleration. 
 
If the manufacturer declares that the vehicle has a regeneration recognition 
feature it shall provide to any possible testing party the procedure needed in order 
to use this feature. In such a case, the procedure may be used to determine the 
occurrence of regeneration. The manufacturer shall also declare the procedure 
needed in order to complete the regeneration. The manufacturer may advise how 
to recognise whether regeneration has taken place in case such a signal is not 
available. 
 
If regeneration occurred during the test, the result without the application of either 
the regeneration factor or offset, if applicable, shall be checked against the 
regional requirements. If the resulting emissions do not fulfil the requirements, 
then the test shall be voided and repeated once. The completion of the 
regeneration and stabilisation through approximately 1 hour of driving shall be 
ensured prior to the start of the second valid test. The second valid test shall not 
be voided even if regeneration occurs during it. 
 
Even if the vehicle fulfils the requirements of point 3.1.0, the occurrence of 
regeneration may be verified as in point 5.5.2.3 above. If the presence of 
regeneration can be proved and with the agreement of the Test Agency, the final 
results will be calculated without the application of any regeneration factors or 
offsets related to the regeneration event. 
5.5.2.4 
At the request of the manufacturer, even if the vehicle fulfils the requirements of 
clause 3.1.0 of this Annex ,the occurrence of regeneration may be verified as in 
clause 5.5.2.3 above. If the presence of regeneration can be proved and with the 
agreement of the Type Approval, the final results will be shown without the 
application of either the Ki factor or the Ki offset. 
5.5.3 
Vehicle models having a selectable option for 4x2 and 4x4 modes, the test will 
be carried out in 4x2 mode. 
 
Vehicle having permanent 4x4 mode / all-wheel drive mode will be tested in 4x4 
mode. 
5.5.4 
Vehicle models having multiple performance modes such as City, Eco, Sports 
etc., the test will always be conducted in default mode. 



--- PAGE 619 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 619 of 762 
 
 
In vehicles, where default mode is not available, the test will be conducted in 
anyone mode based on mutual discussion and agreement between manufacturers 
and the Test Agency. 
6.0 
TRIP REQUIREMENTS 
6.1 
The shares of urban, rural and motorway driving, classified by instantaneous 
speed as described in clause 6.3 to 6.5 of this Annex, shall be expressed as a 
percentage of the total trip distance. 
6.2 
The trip shall always start with urban driving followed by rural and motorway 
driving in accordance with the shares specified in clause 6.6 of this Annex. The 
urban, rural and motorway operation shall be run continuously, but may also 
include a trip which starts and ends at the same point. Rural operation may be 
interrupted by short periods of urban operation when driving through urban areas. 
Motorway operation may be interrupted by short periods of urban or rural 
operation, e.g., when passing toll stations or sections of road work. 
6.3 
Urban operation (Phase I)  is characterized by vehicle speeds lower than 45 km/h 
for M, 40 km/h for N1, and 45 km/h for M1/N1 low powered categories of 
vehicles.   
6.4 
Rural operation (Phase II) is characterized by vehicle speeds higher than or equal 
to 45 km/h and lower than 65 km/h for M, speeds higher than or equal to 40 km/h 
and lower than 60 km/h for N1 and for M1/N1 low powered categories of vehicles 
since only 2 phases considered will be higher than or equal to 45 km/h. 
6.5 
Motorway operation (Phase III) is characterized by speeds higher than or equal 
to 65 km/h for M, higher than or equal to 60 km/h for N1 
6.6 
The trip shall consist of approximately 34 % urban (Phase I), 33 % rural (Phase 
II) and 33 % motorway (Phase III) driving for M and N1 categories; 50 % Phase 
I and 50 % Phase II driving for M1/N1 low powered classified by speed as 
described in Points 6.3 to 6.5 above. "Approximately" shall mean the interval of 
±10 % points around the stated percentages. 
6.7 
Wherever legal max speed limit permits, the vehicle of M category can be driven 
above 100 km/h but not for more than 3 % of the time duration of the Phase III 
driving. 
 
For N1 Category of vehicles, the vehicle velocity shall not normally exceed 80 
km/h and for M1/N1 low powered category vehicles, it should not exceed 70 
km/h. Local speed limits remain in force during a PEMS test, notwithstanding 
other legal consequences. Violations of local speed limits per sec do not 
invalidate the results of a PEMS test. 



--- PAGE 620 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 620 of 762 
 
6.8 
The average speed (including stops) of the urban driving part of the trip should 
be between 15 km/h and 30 km/h for M, N1 and M1/N1 low powered categories 
of vehicles. Stop periods, defined as vehicle speed of less than 1 km/h, shall 
account for 6 to 30 % of the time duration of urban operation. Urban operation 
shall contain several stop periods of 10 s or longer. However, individual stop 
periods shall not exceed 300 consecutive seconds; else the trip shall be voided. 
Vehicle should not be driven continuously below 20 km/h for 20 minutes. 
6.9 
(i)  
For M category vehicles and the speed range of the motorway       driving 
shall properly cover a range between 65 km/h and up to the applicable 
legal limit, if possible, based upon the test route. The vehicle's velocity 
shall be above 75 km/h for at least 5 min.       
 
(ii) 
 For N1 category vehicles and the speed range of the motorway       driving 
shall properly cover a range between 60 km/h and up to 80 km/h. The 
vehicle's velocity shall be above 70 km/h for at least 5 min. 
 
(iii)  For M1/N1 low powered category vehicles and the speed range of the 
Phase II driving shall properly cover a range between 45 km/h and up to 
70 km/h. The vehicle's velocity shall be above 55 km/h for at least 5 min.  
6.10 
The trip duration shall be between 90 and 120 min. 
6.11 
The start and the end point of a trip shall not differ in their elevation above sea 
level by more than 100 m. In addition, the proportional cumulative positive 
altitude gain over the entire trip and over the urban part of the trip as determined 
in accordance with point 4.3 shall be less than 1200 m/100km and be determined 
according to Appendix 7B of this Annex. 
6.12 
The minimum distance of each, the urban, rural and motorway operation shall be 
16 km for M and N1 categories vehicles. 
 
For M1/N1 low powered category of vehicle, the minimum distance of each, 
Phase I and Phase II operation shall be 24 km. 
6.13 
The average speed (including stops) during cold start period as defined in clause 
4 of Appendix 4 of this Annex shall be between 15 and 30 km/h. The maximum 
speed during the cold start period shall not exceed 45 km/h for M, M1/N1 Low 
Powered and 40 km/h for N1 category of vehicles 
7.0 
OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS 
7.1 
The trip shall be selected in such a way that the testing is uninterrupted and the 
data continuously recorded to reach the minimum test duration defined in point 
6.10. 
7.2 
Electrical power shall be supplied to the PEMS by an external power supply unit 
and not from a source that draws its energy either directly or indirectly from the 
engine of the test vehicle. 



--- PAGE 621 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 621 of 762 
 
7.3 
The installation of the PEMS equipment shall be done in a way to minimise the 
influence on the vehicle’s emissions or performance or both to the greatest extent 
possible. Care should be exercised to minimise the mass of the installed 
equipment and potential aerodynamic modifications of the test vehicle. The 
vehicle payload shall be in accordance with point 5.1. 
7.4 
RDE tests shall be conducted on working days. 
7.5 
RDE tests shall be conducted on paved roads and streets (e.g. off road operation 
is not permitted). 
7.6 
At the test start, the vehicle shall move within 15 seconds. The vehicle stop during 
the entire cold start period, as defined in point 4 of Appendix 4, shall be kept to 
the minimum possible and it shall not exceed in total 90 seconds. If the engine 
stalls during the test, it may be restarted, but the sampling shall not be interrupted. 
If the engine stops during the test, the sampling shall not be interrupted. 
8.0 
LUBRICATING OIL, FUEL AND REAGENT 
8.1 
The fuel, lubricant and reagent (if applicable) used for RDE testing shall be 
within the specifications issued by the manufacturer for vehicle operation by the 
customer. 
The test will be carried out with commercial fuel. In case of Gasoline, Ethanol 
blending level shall be similar to reference fuel grade used for Type I test. 
(example: in case of E10 reference fuel, RDE test fuel shall be as per E10 grade 
specified in IS:2796). However, in case of failure of the test, the same can be 
repeated with reference fuel on manufacturer’s request. 
9.0 
EMISSIONS AND TRIP EVALUATION 
9.1 
The test shall be conducted in accordance with Appendix 1 of this Annex. 
9.2 
The trip validity shall be assessed in a three-step procedure as follows: 
 
STEP A: The trip complies with the general requirements, boundary conditions, 
trip and operational requirements, and the specifications for lubricating oil, fuel 
and reagents set out in points 4 to 8 and with Appendix 7b; 
 
STEP B: The trip complies with the requirements set out in Appendices 7a. 
 
STEP C: The trip complies with the requirements set out in Appendix 5. 
 
The steps of the procedure are detailed in Figure 6. 
 
Figure 6 Assessment of trip validity 
 
If at least one of the requirements is not fulfilled, the trip shall be declared invalid. 
 
 



--- PAGE 622 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 622 of 762 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6 Assessment of trip validity 
9.3 
In order to preserve data integrity, it shall not be permitted to combine data of 
different RDE trips in a single data set or to modify or remove data (except for 
cases mentioned explicitly in this AIS) from an RDE trip. 
9.4 
After establishing the validity of a trip in accordance with point 9.2, emission 
results shall be calculated using the methods laid down in Appendix 4 and 
Appendix 10. The emissions calculations shall be made using all valid data 
between test start and test end, as defined in Appendix 1, points 5.1 and 5.3, 
respectively. 
 
Criteria emissions during cold start, as defined in point 4 of Appendix 4, shall be 
included in the normal evaluation in accordance with Appendices 4 and 10. 
9.5 
The extended factor for this Regulation is set at 1.6. If during a particular time 
interval the ambient conditions are extended, in accordance with paragraph 5.2, 
then the criteria emissions calculated according to Appendix 10, during that 
particular time interval, shall be divided by the extended factor. This provision 
does not apply to carbon dioxide emissions. 
9.6 
Gaseous pollutant and particle number emissions during the cold start period, as 
defined in Clause 4.0 of Appendix 4 from AIS 175 , shall be included in the 
normal evaluation in accordance with Appendix 4,5 and 9. 
If the vehicle was conditioned for the last three hours prior to the test at an average 
temperature that falls within the extended range in accordance with paragraph 
5.2, then the provisions of paragraph 9.5. apply to the data collected during the 
cold start period, even if the test ambient conditions are not within the extended 
temperature range. 



--- PAGE 623 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 623 of 762 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex C6 – Appendix 1 
Test Procedure for Vehicle Emissions Testing with a Portable Emissions 
Measurement System (PEMS) 
1.0 
INTRODUCTION 
 
This Appendix describes the test procedure to determine exhaust emissions from 
light passenger and commercial vehicles using a Portable Emissions 
Measurement System. 
2.0 
SYMBOLS, PARAMETERS AND UNITS 
 
≤ 
- 
Smaller or equal 
 
# 
- 
Number 
 
#/m3 
- 
Number per cubic meter 
 
% 
- 
Per cent 
 
°C 
- 
Degree centigrade 
 
g 
- 
Gram 
 
g/s 
- 
Gram per second 
 
h 
- 
Hour 
 
Hz 
- 
Hertz 
 
K 
- 
Kelvin 
 
kg 
- 
Kilogram 
 
kg/s 
- 
Kilogram per second 
 
km 
- 
Kilometer 
 
km/h 
- 
Kilometer per hour 
 
kPa 
- 
Kilopascal 
 
kPa/min 
- 
Kilopascal per minute 
 
l 
- 
Liter 
 
l/min 
- 
Liter per minute 
 
m 
- 
Meter 
 
m3 
- 
Cubic-meter 



--- PAGE 624 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 624 of 762 
 
 
mg 
- 
Milligram 
 
min 
- 
Minute 
 
pe 
- 
Evacuated pressure [kPa] 
 
qvs 
- 
Volume flow rate of the system [l/min] 
 
ppm 
- 
Parts per million 
 
ppmC1 
- 
Parts per million carbon equivalent 
 
rpm 
- 
Revolutions per minute 
 
s 
- 
Second 
 
Vs 
- 
System volume [l] 
3.0 
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 
3.1 
PEMS 
 
The test shall be carried out with a PEMS, composed of components specified in 
points 3.1.1 to 3.1.5 following the performance requirements in Appendix 2. If 
applicable, a connection with the vehicle ECU may be established to determine 
relevant engine and vehicle parameters as specified in point 3.2 of this Appendix. 
3.1.1 
Analysers to determine the concentration of compounds in the exhaust gas. 
3.1.2 
One or multiple instruments or sensors to measure or determine the exhaust mass 
flow. 
3.1.3 
A GNSS to assist in the determination of the position, altitude and, speed of the 
vehicle. 
3.1.4 
If applicable, sensors and other appliances being not part of the vehicle, e.g., to 
measure ambient temperature, relative humidity, air pressure, and vehicle speed. 
3.1.5 
An energy source independent of the vehicle to power the PEMS. 
3.2 
Test Parameters 
 
Test parameters as specified in Table 1 of this Appendix shall be measured, where 
applicable, at a constant frequency of 1.0 Hz or higher and recorded and reported 
in accordance with the requirements of Appendix 8 of this Annex at a frequency 
of 1.0 Hz. If ECU parameters are obtained, these may be obtained at a 
substantially higher frequency but the recording rate shall be 1.0 Hz. The PEMS 
analysers, flow-measuring instruments and sensors shall comply with the 
requirements laid down in Appendices 2 and 3. 
 
 



--- PAGE 625 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 625 of 762 
 
 
 
 
Table 1 Test Parameters 
 
Parameter 
Recommended unit 
Source (8) 
 
THC (1)(4) concentration 
ppmC1 
Analyser 
 
CH4 (1)(4) concentration 
ppmC1 
Analyser 
 
NMHC (1)(4) concentration 
ppmC1 
Analyser (6) 
 
CO concentration (1)(4) 
Ppm 
Analyser 
 
CO2 concentration (1) 
Ppm 
Analyser 
 
NOX concentration (1)(4) 
Ppm 
Analyser (7) 
 
PN concentration (4) 
#/m3 
Analyser 
 
Exhaust mass flow rate 
kg/s 
EFM, any methods 
described in clause 7 of 
Appendix 2 of this Annex 
 
Ambient humidity 
% 
Sensor 
 
Ambient temperature 
K 
Sensor 
 
Ambient pressure 
kPa 
Sensor 
 
Vehicle speed 
km/h 
Sensor, GNSS, or ECU(3) 
 
Vehicle latitude 
Degree 
GNSS 
 
Vehicle longitude 
Degree 
GNSS 
 
Vehicle altitude (5)(9) 
M 
GNSS or Sensor 
 
Exhaust gas(5)  temperature 
K 
Sensor 
 
Engine coolant(5) temperature 
K 
Sensor or ECU 
 
Engine speed (5) 
rpm 
Sensor or ECU 
 
Engine torque (5) 
Nm 
Sensor or ECU 
 
Torque at driven axle (5) 
Nm 
Rim torque meter 
 
Pedal position (5) 
% 
Sensor or ECU 
 
Engine fuel flow (2) 
g/s 
Sensor or ECU 



--- PAGE 626 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 626 of 762 
 
 
Engine intake air flow (2) 
g/s 
Sensor or ECU 
 
Fault status (5) 
- 
ECU 
 
Intake air flow temperature 
K 
Sensor or ECU 
 
Regeneration status (5) 
- 
ECU 
 
Engine oil temperature (5) 
K 
Sensor or ECU 
 
Actual gear (5) 
# 
ECU 
 
Desired gear (e.g. gear (5) 
 
 
 
shift indicator) 
# 
ECU 
 
Other vehicle data (5) 
unspecified 
ECU 
 
Engine intake air flow (2) 
g/s 
Sensor or ECU 
 
Fault status (5) 
- 
ECU 
 
Notes: 
 
1) 
To be measured on a wet basis or to be corrected as described in clause 8.1 of 
Appendix 4 of this Annex. 
 
2) 
To be determined only if indirect methods are used to calculate exhaust mass 
flow rate as described in clause 10.2 and10.3 of Appendix 4 of this Annex. 
 
3) 
Method to be chosen according to clause 4.7 of this Appendix. 
 
4) 
Parameter only mandatory if measurement required by clause 2.1 of this 
Annex. 
 
5) 
To be determined only if necessary to verify the vehicle status and operating 
condition. 
 
6) 
May be calculated from THC and CH4 concentrations according to clause 9.2 
of Appendix 4 of this Annex. 
 
7) 
May be calculated from measured NO and NO2 concentrations. 
 
8) 
Multiple parameter sources may be used. 
 
9) 
The preferable source is the ambient pressure sensor. 
3.3 
Preparation of the Vehicle 
The preparation of the vehicle shall include a general verification of the correct 
technical functioning of the test vehicle. 
 



--- PAGE 627 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 627 of 762 
 
3.4 
Installation of PEMS 
3.4.1 
General 
 
The installation of the PEMS shall follow the instructions of the PEMS 
manufacturer and the local health and safety regulations. When the PEMS is 
installed inside the vehicle, the vehicle should be equipped with gas monitors or 
warning systems for hazardous gases (e.g. CO).The PEMS should be installed as 
to minimize electromagnetic interferences during the test as well as exposure to 
shocks, vibration, dust and variability in temperature. The installation and 
operation of the PEMS shall be such that it avoids leakage and minimize heat loss. 
The installation and operation of PEMS shall not change the nature of the exhaust 
gas nor unduly increase the length of the tailpipe. To avoid the generation of 
particles, connectors shall be thermally stable at the exhaust gas temperatures 
expected during the test. It is recommended not to use elastomer connectors to 
connect the vehicle exhaust outlet and the connecting tube. Elastomer connectors, 
if used, shall have no contact with the exhaust gas to avoid artefacts at high engine 
load. If the test performed with the use of elastomer connectors fails, the test shall 
be repeated without the use of elastomer connectors. 
3.4.2 
Permissible Backpressure 
 
The installation and operation of the PEMS sampling probes shall not unduly 
increase the pressure at the exhaust outlet in a way that may influence the 
representativeness of the measurements. It is thus recommended that only one 
sampling probe is installed in the same plane. If technically feasible, any extension 
to facilitate the sampling or connection with the exhaust mass flow meter shall 
have an equivalent, or larger, cross sectional area than the exhaust pipe. If the 
sampling probes obstruct a significant area of the tailpipe cross-section, 
backpressure measurement may be requested by the Test Agency. 
3.4.3 
Exhaust Mass Flow Meter (EFM) 
 
Whenever used, the EFM shall be attached to the vehicle's tailpipe(s) in 
accordance with the recommendations of the EFM manufacturer. The 
measurement range of the EFM shall match the range of the exhaust mass flow 
rate expected during the test. It is recommended to select the EFM in order to have 
the maximum expected flow rate during the test covering at least 75% of the EFM 
full range.  The installation of the EFM and any exhaust pipe adaptors or junctions 
shall not adversely affect the operation of the engine or exhaust after-treatment 
system. A minimum of four pipe diameters or 150 mm of straight tubing, 
whichever is larger, shall be placed at either side of the flow-sensing element. 
When testing a multi-cylinder engine with a branched exhaust manifold, it is 
recommended to position the exhaust mass flow meter downstream of where the 
manifolds combine and to increase the cross section of the piping such as to have 
an equivalent, or larger, cross sectional area from which to sample. If this is not 
feasible, exhaust flow measurements with several exhaust mass flow meters may 
be used, if approved by the Test Agency. The wide variety of exhaust pipe 
configurations, dimensions and exhaust mass flow rates may require 
compromises, guided by good engineering judgement, when selecting and 
installing the EFM(s). 



--- PAGE 628 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 628 of 762 
 
 
It is permissible to install an EFM with a diameter smaller than that of the exhaust 
outlet or the total cross-sectional area of multiple outlets, providing it improves 
measurement accuracy and does not adversely affect the operation or the exhaust 
after-treatment as specified in clause 3.4.2 of this Appendix. It is recommended 
to document the EFM set-up using photographs. 
 
EFM shall be purged and prepared for operation in accordance with the 
specifications of the EFM manufacturer. This procedure shall, if applicable, 
remove condensation and deposits from the lines and the associated measurement 
ports. 
 
It is recommended to clean the EFM by purging the pressure transducer 
connections with pressurized clean air or nitrogen. This back-flush procedure is 
used to remove condensation and diesel particulate matter from the pressure lines 
and associated flow tube pressure measurement ports. 
3.4.4 
Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) 
 
The GNSS antenna shall be mounted as near as possible to the highest location on 
the vehicle, as to ensure good reception of the satellite signal. The mounted GNSS 
antenna shall interfere as little as possible with the vehicle operation. 
3.4.5 
Connection with the Engine Control Unit (ECU) 
 
If desired, relevant vehicle and engine parameters listed in Table 1 can be recorded 
by using a data logger connected with the ECU or the vehicle network through 
national or international standards, such as ISO 15031-5 or SAE J1979, OBD-II, 
EOBD or WWH-OBD. If applicable, manufacturers shall disclose labels to allow 
the identification of required parameters. 
3.4.6 
Sensors and Auxiliary Equipment 
 
Vehicle speed sensors, temperature sensors, coolant thermocouples or any other 
measurement device not part of the vehicle shall be installed to measure the 
parameter under consideration in a representative, reliable and accurate manner 
without unduly interfering with the vehicle operation and the functioning of other 
analysers, flow-measuring instruments, sensors and signals. Sensors and auxiliary 
equipment shall be powered independently of the vehicle. 
 
It is permitted to power any safety-related illumination of fixtures and installations 
of PEMS components outside of the vehicle’s cabin by the vehicle’s battery. 
3.5 
Emissions Sampling 
 
Emissions sampling shall be representative and conducted at locations of well-
mixed exhaust where the influence of ambient air downstream of the sampling 
point is minimal. If applicable, emissions shall be sampled downstream of the 
exhaust mass flow meter, respecting a distance of at least 150 mm to the flow 
sensing element. The sampling probes shall be fitted at least 200 mm or three 
times the inner diameter of the exhaust pipe, whichever is larger, upstream of the 



--- PAGE 629 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 629 of 762 
 
point at which the exhaust exits the PEMS sampling installation into the 
environment. 
 
If the PEMS feeds part of the sample back to the exhaust flow, this shall occur 
downstream of the sampling probe in a manner that does not affect the nature of 
the exhaust gas at the sampling point(s). If the length of the sampling line is 
changed, the system transport times shall be verified and, if necessary, corrected. 
If the vehicle is equipped with more than one tailpipe then all functioning tailpipes 
shall be connected before sampling and measuring exhaust flow. 
 
If the engine is equipped with an exhaust after-treatment system, the exhaust 
sample shall be taken downstream of the exhaust after-treatment system. When 
testing a vehicle with a branched exhaust manifold, the inlet of the sampling probe 
shall be located sufficiently far downstream so as to ensure that the sample is 
representative of the average exhaust emissions of all cylinders. In multi-cylinder 
engines, having distinct groups of manifolds, such as in a ‘V’ engine 
configuration, the sampling probe shall be positioned downstream of where the 
manifolds combine. If this is technically not feasible, multi-point sampling at 
locations of well-mixed exhaust may be used. In this case, the number and location 
of sampling probes shall match as far as possible those of the exhaust mass flow 
meters. In case of unequal exhaust flows, proportional sampling or sampling with 
multiple analysers shall be considered. 
 
If particles are measured, they shall be sampled from the centre of the exhaust 
stream. If several probes are used for emissions sampling, the particle sampling 
probe should be placed upstream of the other sampling probes. The particle 
sampling probe should not interfere with the sampling of gaseous criteria 
emissions. The type and specifications of the probe and its mounting shall be 
documented in detail. 
 
If hydrocarbons are measured, the sampling line shall be heated to 463 ± 10 K 
(190 ± 10 °C). For the measurement of other gaseous components with or without 
cooling the sampling line shall be kept at a minimum of 333 K (60 °C) to avoid 
condensation and to ensure appropriate penetration efficiencies of the various 
gases. For low-pressure sampling systems, the temperature can be lowered 
correspondingly to the pressure decrease provided that the sampling system 
ensures a penetration efficiency of 95 % for all regulated gaseous criteria 
emissions. If particles are sampled and not diluted at the tailpipe, the sampling 
line from the raw exhaust sample point to the point of dilution or particle detector 
shall be heated to a minimum of 373 K (100 °C). The residence time of the sample 
in the particle sampling line shall be less than 3 s until reaching first dilution or 
the particle detector. 
 
All parts of the sampling system from the tailpipe up to the particle detector, which 
are in contact with raw or diluted exhaust gas, shall be designed to minimize 
deposition of particles. All parts shall be made from antistatic material to prevent 
electrostatic effects. 
4.0 
PRE-TEST PROCEDURE 
4.1 
PEMS Leak Check 



--- PAGE 630 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 630 of 762 
 
 
After the installation of the PEMS is completed, a leak check shall be performed 
at least once for each PEMS vehicle installation as prescribed by the PEMS 
manufacturer or as follows. The probe shall be disconnected from the exhaust 
system and the end plugged. The analyser pump shall be switched on. After an 
initial stabilization period all flow meters shall read approximately zero in the 
absence of a leak. Else, the sampling lines shall be checked and the fault be 
corrected. 
 
The leakage rate on the vacuum side shall not exceed 0.5 % of the in-use flow rate 
for the portion of the system being checked. The analyser flows and bypass flows 
may be used to estimate the in-use flow rate. 
 
Alternatively, the system may be evacuated to a pressure of at least 20 kPa vacuum 
(80 kPa absolute). After an initial stabilization period the pressure increase ∆p 
(kPa/min) in the system shall not 
 
exceed: 
 
∆𝑝= 𝑃𝑒
𝑉𝑠
× 𝑞𝑣𝑠× 0.005 
 
Alternatively, a concentration step change at the beginning of the sampling line 
shall be introduced by switching from zero to span gas while maintaining the same 
pressure conditions as under normal system operation. If for a correctly calibrated 
analyser after an adequate period of time the reading is     ≤ 99 % compared to the 
introduced concentration, the leakage problem shall be corrected. 
4.2 
Starting and Stabilizing the PEMS 
 
The PEMS shall be switched on, warmed up and stabilized in accordance with the 
specifications of the PEMS manufacturer until key functional parameters, e.g., 
pressures, temperatures and flows have reached their operating set points before 
test start. To ensure correct functioning, the PEMS may be kept switched on or 
can be warmed up and stabilized during vehicle conditioning. The system shall be 
free of errors and critical warnings. 
4.3 
Preparing the Sampling System 
 
The sampling system, consisting of the sampling probe and sampling lines, shall 
be prepared for testing by following the instruction of the PEMS manufacturer. It 
shall be ensured that the sampling system is clean and free of moisture 
condensation. 
4.4 
Preparing the Exhaust mass Flow Meter (EFM) 
 
If used for measuring the exhaust mass flow, the EFM shall be purged and 
prepared for operation in accordance with the specifications of the EFM 
manufacturer. This procedure shall, if applicable, remove condensation and 
deposits from the lines and the associated measurement ports. 
4.5 
Checking and Calibrating the Analysers for Measuring Gaseous Emissions 



--- PAGE 631 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 631 of 762 
 
 
Zero and span calibration adjustments of the analysers shall be performed using 
calibration gases that meet the requirements of point 5 of Appendix 2. The 
calibration gases shall be chosen to match the range of criteria emission 
concentrations expected during the RDE test. To minimise analyser drift, it is 
recommended to conduct the zero and span calibration of analysers at an ambient 
temperature that resembles, as closely as possible, the temperature experienced by 
the test equipment during the trip. 
4.6 
Checking the Analyser for Measuring Particle Emissions 
 
The zero level of the analyser shall be recorded by sampling HEPA filtered 
ambient air at an appropriate sampling point, usually at the inlet of the sampling 
line. The signal shall be recorded at a constant frequency which is a multiple of 
1.0 Hz averaged over a period of 2 minutes; the final concentration shall be within 
the manufacturer’s specifications, but shall not exceed 5000 particles per cubic- 
centimeter. 
4.7 
Determining Vehicle Speed 
 
Vehicle speed shall be determined by at least one of the following methods: 
 
(a) 
GNSS; if vehicle speed is determined by a GNSS, the total trip distance 
shall be checked against the measurements of another method according to 
point 7 of Appendix 4 of this Annex. 
 
(b) 
A sensor (e.g., optical or micro-wave sensor); if vehicle speed is determined 
by a sensor, the speed measurements shall comply with the requirements of 
clause 8 of Appendix 2 of this Annex, or alternatively, the total trip distance 
determined by the sensor shall be compared with a reference distance 
obtained from a digital road network or topographic map. The total trip 
distance determined by the sensor shall deviate by no more than 4% from 
the reference distance. 
 
(c) 
The ECU; if vehicle speed is determined by the ECU, the total trip distance 
shall be validated according to clause 3 of Appendix 3 of this Annex and 
the ECU speed signal adjusted, if necessary to fulfil the requirements of 
clause 3.3 of Appendix 3 of this Annex. Alternatively, the total trip distance 
as determined by the ECU can be compared with a reference distance 
obtained from a digital road network or topographic map. The total trip 
distance determined by the ECU shall deviate by no more than 4% from the 
reference. 
4.8 
Checking of PEMS Set Up 
 
The correctness of connections with all sensors and, if applicable, the ECU shall 
be verified. If engine parameters are retrieved, it shall be ensured that the ECU 
reports values correctly (e.g., zero engine speed [rpm] while the combustion 
engine is in key-on-engine-off status). The PEMS shall function free of errors and 
critical warnings. 
5.0 
EMISSIONS TEST 



--- PAGE 632 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 632 of 762 
 
5.1 
Test Start 
 
Sampling, measurement and recording of parameters shall begin prior to the test 
start. Before the test start it shall be confirmed that all necessary parameters are 
recorded by the data logger. 
 
To facilitate time alignment, it is recommended to record the parameters that are 
subject to time alignment either by a single data recording device or with a 
synchronized time stamp. 
5.2 
Test 
 
Sampling, measurement and recording of parameters shall continue throughout 
the on-road test of the vehicle. The engine may be stopped and started, but 
emissions sampling and parameter recording shall continue. Repeated stalling of 
the engine (i.e. unintentional stopping of the engine) should be avoided during an 
RDE trip. Any warning signals, suggesting malfunctioning of the PEMS, shall be 
documented and verified. If any error signal(s) appear during the test, the test shall 
be voided. Parameter recording shall reach a data completeness of higher than 99 
%. 
 
Measurement and data recording may be interrupted for less than 1 % of the total 
trip duration but for no more than a consecutive period of 30 s solely in the case 
of unintended signal loss or for the purpose of PEMS system maintenance. 
Interruptions may be recorded directly by the PEMS but it is not permissible to 
introduce interruptions in the recorded parameter via the pre-processing, exchange 
or post-processing of data. If conducted, auto zeroing shall be performed against 
a traceable zero standard similar to the one used to zero the analyser. It is strongly 
recommended to initiate PEMS system maintenance during periods of zero 
vehicle speed. 
5.3 
Test End 
 
Excessive idling of the engine after the completion of the trip shall be avoided. 
The data recording shall continue until the response time of the sampling systems 
has elapsed. For vehicles with a signal detecting regeneration, the OBD-check 
shall be performed and documented directly after data recording and before any 
further driven distance is driven. 
6.0 
POST-TEST PROCEDURE 
6.1 
Checking the Analysers for Measuring Gaseous Emissions 
 
The zero and span of the analysers of gaseous components shall be checked by 
using calibration gases identical to the ones applied under point 4.5 to evaluate 
the analyser's zero and response drift compared to the pre-test calibration. It is 
permissible to zero the analyser prior to verifying the span drift, if the zero drift 
was determined to be within the permissible range. The post-test drift check shall 
be completed as soon as possible after the test and before the PEMS, or individual 
analysers or sensors, are turned off or have switched into a non-operating mode. 



--- PAGE 633 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 633 of 762 
 
The difference between the pre-test and post-test results shall comply with the 
requirements specified in Table 2 of this Appendix. 
 
 
Table 2 
Permissible Analyser Drift Over a PEMS Test 
 
Pollutant 
Absolute Zero response 
drift 
Absolute Span response drift (1) 
 
CO2 
≤2000 ppm per test 
≤2% of reading or ≤2000 ppm per 
test, whichever is larger 
 
CO 
≤75 ppm per test 
≤2% of reading or ≤75 ppm, per 
test, whichever is larger 
 
NOX 
≤5 ppm per test 
≤2% of reading or ≤5 ppm per test, 
whichever is larger 
 
CH4 
≤10 ppmC1 per test 
≤2% of reading or ≤10 ppmC1 per 
test, whichever is larger 
 
THC 
≤10 ppmC1 per test 
≤2% of reading or ≤10 ppmC1 per 
test, whichever is larger 
 
(1) If the zero drift is within the permissible range, it is permissible to zero the 
analyser prior to verifying the span drift. 
 
(2) If the difference between the pre-test and post-test results for the zero and 
span drift is higher than permitted, all test results shall be voided and the test 
repeated. 
6.2 
Checking the Analyser for Measuring Particle Emissions 
 
The zero level of the analyser shall be recorded in accordance with clause 4.6 of 
this Appendix. 
6.3 
Checking the On-road Emission Measurements 
 
The span gas concentration that was used for the calibration of the analysers in 
accordance with paragraph 4.5 at the test start shall cover at least 90 % of the 
concentration values obtained from 99 % of the measurements of the valid parts 
of the emissions test. It is permissible that 1 % of the total number of 
measurements used for evaluation exceeds the concentration of the span gas used 
by up to a factor of two. If these requirements are not met, the test shall be voided. 
6.4 
Consistency check of vehicle Altitude 
 
In case well-reasoned doubts exist that a trip has been conducted above of the 
permissible altitude as specified in point 5.2 of this Annex and in case altitude has 
only been measured with a GNSS, the GNSS altitude data shall be checked for 
consistency and, if necessary, corrected. The consistency of data shall be checked 



--- PAGE 634 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 634 of 762 
 
by comparing the latitude, longitude and altitude data obtained from the GNSS 
with the altitude indicated by a digital terrain model or a topographic map of 
suitable scale. Measurements that deviate by more than 40 m from the altitude 
depicted in the topographic map shall be manually corrected and marked. 
 
The instantaneous altitude data shall be checked for completeness. Data gaps shall 
be completed by data interpolation. The correctness of interpolated data shall be 
verified by a topographic map. It is recommended to correct interpolated data if 
the following condition applies: 
 
|ℎ𝐺𝑃𝑆(𝑡) −ℎ𝑚𝑎𝑝(𝑡)| > 40 𝑚 
 
The altitude correction shall be applied so that: 
 
|ℎ(𝑡) −ℎ𝑚𝑎𝑝(𝑡)| < 40 𝑚 
 
where: 
 
h(t) 
- 
vehicle altitude after the screening and principle check of data 
quality at data point t [m above sea level] 
 
hGNSS(t) - 
vehicle altitude measured with GNSS at data point t [m above 
sea level] 
 
hmap(t) 
- 
vehicle altitude based on topographic map at data point t [m 
above sea level] 
6.5 
Consistency check of GNSS vehicle speed 
 
The vehicle speed as determined by the GNSS shall be checked for consistency 
by calculating and comparing the total trip distance with reference measurements 
obtained from either a sensor, the validated ECU or, alternatively, from a digital 
road network or topographic map. It is mandatory to correct GNSS data for 
obvious errors, e.g., by applying a dead reckoning sensor, prior to the consistency 
check. The original and uncorrected data file shall be retained and any corrected 
data shall be marked. The corrected data shall not exceed an uninterrupted time 
period of 120 s or a total of 300 s. The total trip distance as calculated from the 
corrected GNSS data shall deviate by no more than 4 % from the reference. If the 
GNSS data do not meet these requirements and no other reliable speed source is 
available, the test results shall be voided. 
6.6 
Consistency check of the ambient temperature 
 
The ambient temperature data shall be checked for consistency and inconsistent 
values corrected by substituting outliers with the average of the neighbouring 
values. The original and uncorrected data shall be retained and any corrected data 
shall be marked. 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 635 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 635 of 762 
 
 
Annex 6 – Appendix 2 
Specifications and Calibration of PEMS Components and Signals 
1.0 
INTRODUCTION 
 
This Appendix sets out the specifications and calibration of PEMS components 
and signals. 
2.0 
SYMBOLS, PARAMETERS AND UNITS 
 
> 
Larger than 
 
≥ 
Larger than or equal to 
 
% 
Per cent 
 
≤ 
Smaller than or equal to 
 
A 
Undiluted CO2 concentration [%] 
 
a0 
Y-axis intercept of the linear regression line 
 
a1 
Slope of the linear regression line 
 
B 
Diluted CO2 concentration [%] 
 
C 
Diluted NO concentration [ppm] 
 
c 
Analyser response in the oxygen interference test 
 
CFS,b 
Full scale HC concentration in Step (b) [ppmC1] 
 
CFS,d 
Full scale HC concentration in Step (d) [ppmC1] 
 
CHC(w/NMC) HC concentration with CH4 or C2H6 flowing through the NMC 
[ppmC1] 
 
CHC(w/o 
NMC) 
HC concentration with CH4 or C2H6 bypassing the NMC [ppmC1] 
 
Cm,b 
Measured HC concentration in Step (b) [ppmC1] 
 
Cm,d 
Measured HC concentration in Step (d) [ppmC1] 
 
Cref,b 
Reference HC concentration in Step (b) [ppmC1] 
 
Cref,d 
Reference HC concentration in Step (d) [ppmC1] 
 
°C 
Degree centigrade 



--- PAGE 636 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 636 of 762 
 
 
D 
Undiluted NO concentration [ppm] 
 
De 
Expected diluted NO concentration [ppm] 
 
E 
Absolute operating pressure [kPa] 
 
ECO2 
Per cent CO2 quench 
 
E(dp) 
PEMS-PN analyser efficiency 
 
EE 
Ethane efficiency 
 
EH2O 
Per cent water quench 
 
EM 
Methane efficiency 
 
EO2 
Oxygen interference 
 
F 
Water temperature [K] 
 
G 
Saturation vapour pressure [kPa] 
 
g 
Gram 
 
gH2O/kg 
Gram water per kilogram 
 
h 
Hour 
 
H 
Water vapour concentration [%] 
 
Hm 
Maximum water vapour concentration [%] 
 
Hz 
Hertz 
 
K 
Kelvin 
 
kg 
Kilogram 
 
km/h 
Kilometer per hour 
 
kPa 
Kilopascal 
 
max 
Maximum value 
 
NOx,dry 
Moisture-corrected 
mean concentration 
of the stabilized 
NOX recordings 
 
NOx,m 
Mean concentration of the stabilized NOX recordings 
 
NOx,ref
 
 
Reference mean concentration of the stabilized NOX recordings 



--- PAGE 637 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 637 of 762 
 
 
Ppm 
Parts per million 
 
ppmC1 
Parts per million carbon equivalents 
 
r2 
Coefficient of determination 
 
s 
Second 
 
t0 
Time point of gas flow switching [s] 
 
t10 
Time point of 10% response of the final reading 
 
t50 
Time point of 50% response of the final reading 
 
t90 
Time point of 90% response of the final reading 
 
x 
Independent variable or reference value 
 
Xmin 
Minimum value 
 
y 
Dependent variable or measured value 
3.0 
LINEARITY VERIFICATION 
3.1 
General 
 
The accuracy and linearity of analysers, flow-measuring instruments, sensors 
and signals, shall be traceable to international or national standards. Any 
sensors or signals that are not directly traceable, e.g., simplified flow-
measuring instruments shall be calibrated alternatively against chassis 
dynamometer laboratory equipment that has been calibrated against 
international or national standards. 
3.2 
Linearity Requirements 
 
All analysers, flow-measuring instruments, sensors and signals shall comply 
with the linearity requirements given in Table 1 of this Appendix. If air flow, 
fuel flow, the air-to-fuel ratio or the exhaust mass flow rate is obtained from the 
ECU, the calculated exhaust mass flow rate shall meet the linearity 
requirements specified in Table 1 of this Appendix. 
 
 
 
Table 1 
Linearity Requirements of Measurement Parameters and Systems 
 
Measurement 
parameter/ 
instrument 
|χmin × 
(a1 – 1)+ a0| 
Slope a1 Standard 
error 
SEE 
Coefficient  of 
determination 
(r2) 
 
Fuel flow rate(1) 
≤1% max 
0.98 -
1.02 
≤2% 
≥0.990 



--- PAGE 638 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 638 of 762 
 
 
Air flow rate(1) 
≤1% max 
0.98 -
1.02 
≤ 2 % 
≥0.990 
 
Exhaust Mass flow 
rate 
≤2% max 
0.97 - 
1.03 
≤ 3 % 
≥0.990 
 
Gas analysers 
≤0.5% max 
0.99 - 
1.01 
≤1% 
≥0.998 
 
Torque(2) 
≤1% max 
0.98 -
1.02 
≤2% 
≥0.990 
 
PN analysers (3) 
≤5% max 
0.85- 
1.15(4) 
≤10% 
≥0.950 
 
(1) Optional to determine exhaust mass flow  
 
(2) Optional parameter 
 
(3) The linearity check shall be verified with soot-like particles, as these are 
defined in clause 6.2 of this Appendix. 
 
(4) To be updated based on error propagation and traceability charts 
3.3 
Frequency of Linearity Verification 
 
The linearity requirements according to clause 3.2 of this Appendix shall be 
verified: 
 
(a) 
 for each gas analyser at least every twelve months or whenever a system 
repair or component change or modification is made that could influence 
the calibration; 
 
(b) 
 for other relevant instruments, such as PN analysers exhaust mass flow 
meters and traceably calibrated sensors, whenever damage is observed, 
as required by internal audit procedures or by the instrument 
manufacturer but no longer than one year before the actual test. 
 
The linearity requirements according to clause 3.2 of this Appendix for sensors 
or ECU signals that are not directly traceable shall be performed with a 
traceably calibrated measurement device on the chassis dynamometer once for 
each PEMS vehicle setup. 
3.4 
Procedure of Linearity Verification 
3.4.1 
General Requirements 
 
The relevant analysers, instruments and sensors shall be brought to their normal 
operating condition according to the recommendations of their manufacturer. 
The analysers, instruments and sensors shall be operated at their specified 
temperatures, pressures and flows. 



--- PAGE 639 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 639 of 762 
 
3.4.2 
General Procedure 
 
The linearity shall be verified for each normal operating range by executing the 
following steps: 
 
(a) 
 The analyser, flow-measuring instrument or sensor shall be set to zero 
by introducing a zero signal. For gas analysers, purified synthetic air or 
nitrogen shall be introduced to the analyser port via a gas path that is as 
direct and short as possible. 
 
(b) 
 The analyser, flow-measuring instrument or sensor shall be spanned by 
introducing a span signal. For gas analysers, an appropriate span gas 
shall be introduced to the analyser port via a gas path that is as direct and 
short as possible. 
 
(c) 
 The zero procedure of (a) shall be repeated. 
 
(d) 
 The linearity shall be verified by introducing at least 10, approximately 
equally spaced and valid, reference values (including zero). The 
reference values with respect to the concentration of components, the 
exhaust mass flow rate or any other relevant parameter shall be chosen 
to match the range of values expected during the emissions test. For 
measurements of exhaust mass flow, reference points below 5% of the 
maximum calibration value can be excluded from the linearity 
verification. 
 
(e) 
 For gas analysers, known gas concentrations in accordance with clause 5 
of this Appendix shall be introduced to the analyser port. Sufficient time 
for signal stabilization shall be given 
 
(f) 
 The values under evaluation and, if needed, the reference values shall be 
recorded at a constant frequency which is a multiple of 1.0 Hz over a 
period of 30 seconds (60 s for particle number analysers). 
 
(g) 
 The arithmetic mean values over the 30s period shall be used to 
calculate the least squares linear regression parameters, with the best-fit 
equation having the form: 
 
y = a1x + a0 
 
where: 
 
y 
= 
Actual value of the measurement system 
 
a1 
= 
Slope of the regression line 
 
x 
= 
Reference value 
 
a0 
= 
y intercept of the regression line 



--- PAGE 640 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 640 of 762 
 
 
The standard error of estimate (SEE) of y on x and the coefficient of 
determination (r2) shall be calculated for each measurement parameter and 
system. 
 
(h) 
 The linear regression parameters shall meet the requirements specified in 
Table 1 of this Appendix. 
3.4.3 
Requirements for Linearity Verification on a Chassis Dynamometer 
 
Non-traceable flow-measuring instruments, sensors or ECU signals that cannot 
directly be calibrated according to traceable standards, shall be calibrated on a 
chassis dynamometer following the applicable requirements. If necessary, the 
instrument or sensor to be calibrated shall be installed on the test vehicle and 
operated according to the requirements of Appendix 1. The calibration procedure 
shall follow whenever possible the requirements of point 3.4.2. At least 10 
appropriate reference values shall be selected as to ensure that at least 90% of the 
maximum value expected to occur during the RDE test is covered. 
 
If a non-traceable flow-measuring instrument, sensor or ECU signal for 
determining exhaust flow is to be calibrated, a reference exhaust mass flow meter 
with traceable calibration or the CVS shall be attached to the vehicle’s tailpipe. It 
shall be ensured that the vehicle exhaust is accurately measured by the exhaust 
mass flow meter according to point 3.4.3 of Appendix 1. The vehicle shall be 
operated by applying constant throttle at a constant gear selection and chassis 
dynamometer load. 
4.0 
ANALYSERS FOR MEASURING GASEOUS COMPONENTS 
4.1 
Permissible Types of Analysers 
4.1.1 
Standard Analysers                                         
 
The gaseous components shall be measured with analysers specified in clause 
1.3.1 to 1.3.5 of Appendix 7 of this Annex. If an NDUV analyser measures both 
NO and NO2, a NO2/NO converter is not required. 
4.1.2 
Alternative Analysers 
 
Any analyser not meeting the design specifications of point 4.1.1 is permissible 
provided that it fulfills the requirements of point 4.2. The manufacturer shall 
ensure that the alternative analyser achieves an equivalent or higher measurement 
performance compared to a standard analyser over the range of criteria emission 
concentrations and co-existing gases that can be expected from vehicles operated 
with permissible fuels under moderate and extended conditions of valid RDE 
testing as specified in points 5, 6 and 7 of this Annex. Upon request, the 
manufacturer of the analyser shall submit in writing supplemental information, 
demonstrating that the measurement performance of the alternative analyser is 
consistently and reliably in line with the measurement performance of standard 
analysers. Supplemental information shall contain: 



--- PAGE 641 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 641 of 762 
 
 
(a) 
 A description of the theoretical basis and the technical components of the 
alternative analyser; 
 
(b) 
 A demonstration of equivalency with the respective standard analyser 
specified in clause 4.1.1 of this Appendix over the expected range of 
pollutant concentrations and ambient conditions of the type-approval test 
defined in AnnexB6 of this Regulation as well as a validation test as 
described in clause 3 of Appendix 3 of this Annex for a vehicle equipped 
with a spark-ignition and compression-ignition engine; the manufacturer 
of the analyser shall demonstrate the significance of equivalency within 
the permissible tolerances given in clause 3.3 of Appendix 3 of this 
Annex. 
 
(c) 
 A demonstration of equivalency with the respective standard analyser 
specified in clause 4.1.1 of this Appendix with respect to the influence of 
atmospheric pressure on the measurement performance of the analyser; 
the demonstration test shall determine the response to span gas having a 
concentration within the analyser range to check the influence of  
atmospheric   pressure   under moderate and extended altitude conditions 
defined in clause 5.2 of this Annex. Such a test can be performed in an 
altitude environmental test chamber. 
 
(d) 
 A demonstration of equivalency with the respective standard analyser 
specified in clause 4.1.1 of this Appendix over at least three on-road tests 
that fulfill the requirements of this Annex. 
 
(e) 
 A demonstration that the influence of vibrations, accelerations and 
ambient temperature on the analyser reading does not exceed the noise 
requirements for analysers set out in clause 4.2.4. of this Appendix. Test 
Agency authorities may request additional information to substantiate 
equivalency or refuse approval if measurements demonstrate that an 
alternative analyser is not equivalent to a standard analyser. 
4.2 
Analyser specifications 
4.2.1 
General 
 
In addition to the linearity requirements defined for each analyser in point 3, the 
compliance of analyser types with the specifications laid down in points 4.2.2 to 
4.2.8 of this Appendix shall be demonstrated by the analyser manufacturer. 
Analysers shall have a measuring range and response time appropriate to measure 
with adequate accuracy the concentrations of the exhaust gas components at the 
applicable emissions standard under transient and steady state conditions. The 
sensitivity of the analysers to shocks, vibration, aging, variability in temperature 
and air pressure as well as electromagnetic interferences and other impacts related 
to vehicle and analyser operation shall be limited as far as possible. 
4.2.2 
Accuracy 
 
The accuracy, defined as the deviation of the analyser reading from the reference 
value, shall not exceed 2 % of reading or 0.3 % of full scale, whichever is larger. 



--- PAGE 642 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 642 of 762 
 
4.2.3 
Precision 
 
The precision, defined as 2.5 times the standard deviation of 10 repetitive 
responses to a given calibration or span gas, shall be no greater than 1 % of the 
full scale concentration for a measurement range equal or above 155 ppm (or 
ppmC1) and 2% of the full scale concentration for a measurement range of below 
155 ppm (or ppmC1). 
4.2.4 
Noise 
 
The noise shall not exceed 2 % of full scale. Each of the 10 measurement periods 
shall be interspersed with an interval of 30 seconds in which the analyser is 
exposed to an appropriate span gas. Before each sampling period and before each 
span period, sufficient time shall be given to purge the analyser and the sampling 
lines. 
4.2.5 
Zero Response Drift 
 
The drift of the zero response, defined as the mean response to a zero gas during 
a time interval of at least 30 s, shall comply with the specifications given in Table 
2 of this Appendix. 
4.2.6 
Span response drift  
 
The drift of the span response, defined as the mean response to a span gas during 
a time interval of at least 30s, shall comply with the specifications given in Table 
2 of this Appendix. 
 
 
 
Table 2 
Permissible Zero and Span Response Drift of Analysers for Measuring 
Gaseous Components Under Laboratory Conditions 
 
Pollutant 
Absolute Zero response 
drift 
Absolute Span response drift 
 
CO2 
≤ 1000 ppm over 4h 
≤ 2% of reading or ≤ 1000 ppm 
over 4h,whichever is larger 
 
CO 
≤ 50 ppm over 4h 
≤ 2% of reading or ≤ 50 ppm 
over 4h, whichever is larger 
 
PN 
5000 particles per cubic 
centimeter over 4h 
According 
to 
manufacturer 
specifications 
 
NOX 
≤5 ppm over 4h 
≤2% of reading or 5ppm over 
4h,whichever is larger 
 
CH4 
≤ 10 ppmC1 
≤ 2% of reading or ≤ 10 ppmC1 
over 4h, whichever is larger 



--- PAGE 643 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 643 of 762 
 
 
THC 
≤ 10 ppmC1 
≤ 2% of reading or ≤ 10 ppmC1 
over 4h, whichever is larger 
4.2.7 
Rise Time 
 
The rise time, defined as the time between the 10 % and 90 % response of the 
final reading (t90 – t10; see clause 4.4 of this Appendix), the rise time of PEMS 
analysers shall not exceed 3 s. 
4.2.8 
Gas Drying 
 
Exhaust gases may be measured wet or dry. A gas-drying device, if used, shall 
have a minimal effect on the composition of the measured gases. Chemical dryers 
are not permitted. 
4.3 
Additional Requirements 
4.3.1 
General 
 
The provisions in clause 4.3.2 to 4.3.5 of this Appendix define additional 
performance requirements for specific analyser types and apply only to cases, in 
which the analyser under consideration is used for RDE emission measurements. 
4.3.2 
Efficiency Test for NOX Converters 
 
If a NOX converter is applied, for example to convert NO2 into NO for analysis 
with a chemiluminescence analyser, its efficiency shall be tested by following the 
requirements of clause 5.5  of  Annex B5 of this regulation. The efficiency of the 
NOX converter shall be verified no longer than one month before the emissions 
test. 
4.3.3 
Adjustment of the Flame Ionisation Detector (FID) 
 
(a) 
Optimization of the detector response 
 
 
If hydrocarbons are measured, the FID shall be adjusted at intervals 
specified by the analyser manufacturer by following Clause 5.4.1 of Annex 
B5 of this regulation. A propane-in-air or propane-in- nitrogen span gas 
shall be used to optimize the response in the most common operating range. 
 
(b) 
Hydrocarbon response factors 
 
 
If hydrocarbons are measured, the hydrocarbon response factor of the FID 
shall be verified by following the provisions of Clause 5.4.3 of Annex B5 
of this regulation, using propane-in-air or propane-in- nitrogen as span 
gases and purified synthetic air or nitrogen as zero gases, respectively. 
 
(c) 
Oxygen interference check 
 
 
The oxygen interference check shall be performed when introducing a FID 
into service and after major maintenance intervals. A measuring range shall 
be chosen in which the oxygen interference check gases fall in the upper 



--- PAGE 644 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 644 of 762 
 
50 %. The test shall be conducted with the oven temperature set as 
required. The specifications of the oxygen interference check gases are 
described in clause 5.3 of this Appendix. 
 
 
The following procedure applies: 
 
 
(i) 
 
The analyser shall be set at zero; 
 
 
(ii) 
 
The analyser shall be spanned with a 0 % oxygen blend for 
positive ignition engines and a 21 % oxygen blend for 
compression ignition engines; 
 
 
(iii)  
The zero response shall be rechecked. If it has changed by more 
than 0.5 % of full scale, Steps (i) and (ii) shall be repeated; 
 
 
(iv)  
The 5 % and 10 % oxygen interference check gases shall be 
introduced; 
 
 
(v) 
 
The zero response shall be rechecked. If it has changed by more 
than ±1% of full scale, the test shall be repeated; 
 
 
(vi)  
The oxygen interference EO2 shall be calculated for each oxygen 
interference check gas in step (iv) as follows: 
 
𝐸𝑂2 = (𝐶𝑟𝑒𝑓,𝑑−𝑐)
(𝐶𝑟𝑒𝑓,𝑑)
× 100 
 
where the analyser response is: 
 
𝐶= (𝐶𝑟𝑒𝑓,𝑑× 𝐶𝐹𝑆,𝑏)
𝐶𝑚,𝑏
× 𝐶𝑚,𝑏
𝐶𝐹𝑆,𝑑
 
 
where: 
 
Cref,b 
= 
Reference HC concentration in Step (ii) [ppmC1] 
 
𝐶𝑟𝑒𝑓,𝑑 
= 
Reference HC concentration in Step (iv) [ppmC1] 
 
𝐶𝐹𝑆,𝑏 
= 
Full scale HC concentration in Step (ii) [ppmC1] 
 
𝐶𝐹𝑆,𝑑 
= 
Full scale HC concentration in Step (iv) [ppmC1] 
 
𝐶𝑚,𝑏 
= 
Measured HC concentration in Step (ii) [ppmC1] 
 
Cm,d 
= 
Measured HC concentration in Step (iv) [ppmC1] 
 
(i) 
 The oxygen interference EO2 shall be less than ±1.5% for all required 
oxygen interference check gases. 



--- PAGE 645 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 645 of 762 
 
 
(ii) 
 If the oxygen interference EO2 is higher than ±1.5%, corrective action 
may be taken by incrementally adjusting the air flow (above and below 
the manufacturer's specifications), the fuel flow and the sample flow. 
 
(iii)  The oxygen interference check shall be repeated for each new setting. 
4.3.4 
Conversion Efficiency of the Non-methane Cutter (NMC) 
 
If hydrocarbons are analysed, a NMC can be used to remove non- methane 
hydrocarbons from the gas sample by oxidizing all hydrocarbons except methane. 
Ideally, the conversion for methane is 0% and for the other hydrocarbons 
represented by ethane is 100%. For the accurate measurement of NMHC, the two 
efficiencies shall be determined and used for the calculation of the NMHC 
emissions (see clause 9.2 of Appendix 4 of this Annex. It is not necessary to 
determine the methane conversion efficiency in case the NMC-FID is calibrated 
according to method (b) in clause 9.2 of Appendix 4 of this Annex by passing the 
methane/air calibration gas through the NMC. 
 
(a) 
 Methane conversion efficiency 
 
 
Methane calibration gas shall be flown through the FID with and without 
bypassing the NMC; the two concentrations shall be recorded. The 
methane efficiency shall be determined as: 
 
 
𝐸𝑀= 1 −
𝐶𝐻𝐶( 𝑤
𝑁𝑀𝐶)
𝐶𝐻𝐶(
𝑤
𝑜𝑁𝑀𝐶)
 
 
 
where: 
 
 
CHC(w/NMC)  = 
HC concentration with CH4 flowing through the NMC 
[ppmC1] 
 
 
CHC(w/o NMC) = 
HC concentration with CH4 bypassing the NMC 
[ppmC1] 
 
(b) 
 Ethane conversion efficiency 
 
 
Ethane calibration gas shall be flown through the FID with and without 
bypassing the NMC; the two concentrations shall be recorded. The ethane 
efficiency shall be determined as: 
 
 
𝐸𝐸= 1 −
𝐶𝐻𝐶( 𝑤
𝑁𝑀𝐶)
𝐶𝐻𝐶(
𝑤
𝑜𝑁𝑀𝐶)
 
 
 
where: 
 
 
CHC(w/NMC) = 
HC concentration with C2H6 flowing through the NMC 
[ppmC1] 



--- PAGE 646 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 646 of 762 
 
 
 
CHC(w/o NMC) = 
HC concentration with C2H6 bypassing the NMC 
[ppmC1] 
4.3.5 
Interference Effects 
 
(a) 
 General 
 
 
Other gases than the ones being analysed can affect the analyser reading. 
A check for interference effects and the correct functionality of analysers 
shall be performed by the analyser manufacturer prior to market 
introduction at least once for each type of analyser or device addressed in 
clause (b) to (f) of this Appendix. 
 
(b) 
 CO analyser interference check 
 
 
Water and CO2 can interfere with the measurements of the CO analyser. 
Therefore, a CO2 span gas having a concentration of 80 to 100 per cent 
of full scale of the maximum operating range of the CO analyser used 
during the test shall be bubbled through water at room temperature and 
the analyser response recorded. The analyser response shall not be more 
than 2 per cent of the mean CO concentration expected during normal on-
road testing or ± 50 ppm, whichever is larger. The interference check for 
H2O and CO2 may be run as separate procedures. If the H2O and CO2 
levels used for the interference check are higher than the maximum levels 
expected during the test, each observed interference value shall be scaled 
down by multiplying the observed interference with the ratio of the 
maximum expected concentration value during the test and the actual 
concentration value used during this check. Separate interference checks 
with concentrations of H2O that are lower than the maximum 
concentration expected during the test may be run and the observed H2O 
interference shall be scaled up by multiplying the observed interference 
with the ratio of the maximum H2O concentration value expected during 
the test and the actual concentration value used during this check. The 
sum of the two scaled interference values shall meet the tolerance 
specified in this point. 
 
(c) 
 NOX analyser quench check 
 
 
The two gases of concern for CLD and HCLD analysers are CO2 and 
water vapour. The quench response to these gases is proportional to the 
gas concentrations. A test shall determine the quench at the highest 
concentrations expected during the test. If the CLD and HCLD analysers 
use quench compensation algorithms that utilize H2O or CO2 
measurement analysers or both, quench shall be evaluated with these 
analysers active and with the compensation algorithms applied. 
 
 
(i) 
 CO2 quench check 
 
 
 
A CO2 span gas having a concentration of 80 to 100 % of the 
maximum operating range shall be passed through the NDIR 
analyser; the CO2 value shall be recorded as A. The CO2 span 
gas shall then be diluted by approximately 50% with NO span gas 



--- PAGE 647 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 647 of 762 
 
and passed through the NDIR and CLD or HCLD; the CO2 and 
NO values shall be recorded as B and C, respectively. The CO2 
gas flow shall then be shut off and only the NO span gas shall be 
passed through the CLD or HCLD; the NO value shall be 
recorded as D. The percent quench shall be calculated as: 
 
 
 
𝐸𝐶𝑂2 = [1 −(
𝐶× 𝐴
(𝐷× 𝐴) −(𝐷× 𝐵))] × 100 
 
 
 
where: 
 
 
 
A = 
 Undiluted CO2 concentration measured with the NDIR 
[%] 
 
 
 
B = 
 Diluted CO2 concentration measured with the NDIR [%] 
 
 
 
C  = Diluted NO concentration measured with the CLD or 
HCLD [ppm] 
 
 
 
D = 
Undiluted NO concentration measured with the CLD or 
HCLD [ppm] 
 
 
 
Alternative methods of diluting and quantifying of CO2 and NO 
span gas values such as dynamic mixing/blending are permitted 
upon approval of the Test Agency. 
 
 
(ii) 
 Water quench check 
 
 
 
This check applies to measurements of wet gas concentrations 
only. The calculation of water quench shall consider dilution of 
the NO span gas with water vapour and the scaling of the water 
vapour concentration in the gas mixture to concentration levels 
that are expected to occur during an emissions test. A NO span 
gas having a concentration of 80 % to 100 % of full scale of the 
normal operating range shall be passed through the CLD or 
HCLD; the NO value shall be recorded as D. The NO span gas 
shall then be bubbled through water at room temperature and 
passed through the CLD or HCLD; the NO value shall be 
recorded as C. The analyser's absolute operating pressure and the 
water temperature shall be determined and recorded as E and F, 
respectively. The mixture's saturation vapour pressure that 
corresponds to the water temperature of the bubbler F shall be 
determined and recorded as G. The  water  vapour  concentration  
H  [%]  of  the  gas  mixture  shall be calculated as: 
 
 
 
𝐻= 𝐺
𝐸× 100 
 
 
 
The expected concentration of the diluted NO-water vapour span 
gas shall be recorded as De after being calculated as: 



--- PAGE 648 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 648 of 762 
 
 
 
 
𝐷𝑒= 𝐷× (1 −𝐻
100) 
 
 
 
For diesel exhaust, the maximum concentration of water vapour 
in the exhaust gas (in per cent) expected during the test shall be 
recorded as Hm after being estimated, under the assumption of a 
fuel H/C ratio of 1.8/1, from the maximum CO2 concentration in 
the exhaust gas A as follows: 
 
 
 
Hm = 0 .9 × A 
 
 
 
The percent water quench shall be calculated as 
 
 
 
𝐸𝐻2𝑂= ((𝐷𝑒−𝐶
𝐷𝑒
) × (𝐻𝑚
𝐻)) 𝑋100 
 
 
 
where: 
 
 
 
De = Expected diluted NO concentration [ppm] 
 
 
 
C = Measured diluted NO concentration [ppm] 
 
 
 
Hm = Maximum water vapour concentration [%] 
 
 
(iii)  Maximum allowable quench 
 
 
 
The combined CO2 and water quench shall not exceed 2 % of full 
scale. 
 
(d) 
 Quench check for NDUV analysers 
 
 
Hydrocarbons and water can positively interfere with NDUV analysers by 
causing a response similar to that of NOX. The manufacturer of the 
NDUV analyser shall use the following procedure to verify that quench 
effects are limited: 
 
 
(i) 
 The analyser and chiller shall be set up by following the operating 
instructions of the manufacturer; adjustments should be made as 
to optimise the analyser and chiller performance. 
 
 
(ii) 
 A zero calibration and span calibration at concentration values 
expected during emissions testing shall be performed for the 
analyser. 
 
 
(iii)  A NO2 calibration gas shall be selected that matches as far as 
possible the maximum NO2 concentration expected during 
emissions testing. 
 
 
(iv)  The NO2 calibration gas shall overflow at the gas sampling 
system’s probe until the NOX response of the analyser has 
stabilised. 



--- PAGE 649 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 649 of 762 
 
 
 
(v) 
 The mean concentration of the stabilized NOX recordings over a 
period of 30s shall be calculated and recorded as NOX,ref. 
 
 
(vi)  The flow of the NO2 calibration gas shall be stopped and the 
sampling system saturated by overflowing with a dew point 
generator's output, set at a dew point of 50°C. The dew point 
generator's output shall be sampled through the sampling system 
and chiller for at least 10min until the chiller is expected to be 
removing a constant rate of water. 
 
 
(vii)  Upon completion of (iv), the sampling system shall again be 
overflown by the NO2 calibration gas used to establish NOX,ref 
until the total NOX response has stabilized. 
 
 
(viii)  The mean concentration of the stabilized NOX recordings over a 
period of 30s shall be calculated and recorded as NOX,m. 
 
 
(ix)  NOX,m shall be corrected to NOX,dry based upon the residual 
water vapour that passed through the chiller at the chiller's outlet 
temperature and pressure. 
 
 
The calculated NOX,dry shall at least amount to 95% of NOX,ref. 
 
(e) 
 Sample dryer 
 
 
A sample dryer removes water, which can otherwise interfere with the 
NOX measurement. For dry CLD analysers, it shall be demonstrated that 
at the highest expected water vapour concentration Hm the sample dryer 
maintains the CLD humidity at ≤ 5 g water/kg dry air (or about 0.8 per 
cent H2O), which is 100 per cent relative humidity at 3.9 °C and 101.3 
kPa or about 25 per cent relative humidity at 25 °C and 101.3 kPa. 
Compliance may be demonstrated by measuring the temperature at the 
outlet of a thermal sample dryer or by measuring the humidity at a point 
just upstream of the CLD. The humidity of the CLD exhaust might also 
be measured as long as the only flow into the CLD is the flow from the 
sample dryer. 
 
(f) 
 Sample dryer NO2 penetration 
 
 
Liquid water remaining in an improperly designed sample dryer can 
remove NO2 from the sample. If a sample dryer is used in combination 
with a NDUV analyser without an NO2/NO converter upstream, water 
could therefore remove NO2 from the sample prior to the NOX 
measurement. The sample dryer shall allow for measuring at least 95 per 
cent of the NO2 contained in a gas that is saturated with water vapour and 
consists of the maximum NO2 concentration expected to occur during 
emission testing. 
4.4 
Response Time Check of the Analytical System 
 
For the response time check, the settings of the analytical system shall be exactly 
the same as during the emissions test (i.e. pressure, flow rates, filter settings in 



--- PAGE 650 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 650 of 762 
 
the analysers and all other parameters influencing the response time). The 
response time shall be determined with gas switching directly at the inlet of the 
sample probe. The gas switching shall be done in less than 0.1 s. The gases used 
for the test shall cause a concentration change of at least 60 % full scale of the 
analyser. 
 
The concentration trace of each single gas component shall be recorded. 
 
For time alignment of the analyser and exhaust flow signals, the transformation 
time is defined as the time from the change (t0) until the response is 50 % of the 
final reading (t50). 
 
The system response time shall be ≤ 12 s with a rise time of ≤ 3 s for all 
components and all ranges used. When using a NMC for the measurement of 
NMHC, the system response time may exceed 12 s. 
5.0 
GASES 
5.1 
General 
 
The shelf life of calibration and span gases shall be respected. Pure and mixed 
calibration and span gases shall fulfil the specifications of clause 6.1 and 6.2  of 
Annex B5 of this regulation. In addition, NO2 calibration gas is permissible. The 
concentration of the NO2 calibration gas shall be within 2% of the declared 
concentration value. The amount of NO contained in the NO2 calibration gas 
shall not exceed 5% of the NO2 content. 
5.1.1 
Multicomponent mixtures 
 
Only multicomponent mixtures which fulfill the requirements of point 5.1.1. shall 
be used. These mixtures may contain two or more of the components. 
Multicomponent mixtures containing both NO and NO2 are exempted of the NO2 
impurity requirement set out in points 5.1.1 and 5.1.2. 
5.2 
Gas Dividers 
 
Gas dividers, i.e., precision blending devices that dilute with purified N2 or 
synthetic air, can be used to obtain calibration and span gases. The accuracy of 
the gas divider shall be such that the concentration of the blended calibration 
gases is accurate to within ± 2 %. The verification shall be performed at between 
15 and 50 % of full scale for each calibration incorporating a gas divider. An 
additional verification may be performed using another calibration gas, if the first 
verification has failed. 
 
Optionally, the gas divider may be checked with an instrument which by nature 
is linear, e.g. using NO gas in combination with a CLD. The span value of the 
instrument shall be adjusted with the span gas directly connected to the 
instrument. The gas divider shall be checked at the settings typically used and the 
nominal value shall be compared with the concentration measured by the 
instrument. The difference shall in each point be within ±1 per cent of the nominal 
concentration value. 



--- PAGE 651 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 651 of 762 
 
5.3 
Oxygen Interference Check Gases 
 
Oxygen interference check gases consist of a blend of propane, oxygen and 
nitrogen and shall contain propane at a concentration of 350±75 ppmC1. The 
concentration shall be determined by gravimetric methods, dynamic blending or 
the chromatographic analysis of total hydrocarbons plus impurities. The oxygen 
concentrations of the oxygen interference check gases shall meet the requirements 
listed in Table 3 of this Appendix; the remainder of the oxygen interference check 
gas shall consist of purified nitrogen. 
 
Table 3 
Oxygen Interference Check Gases 
 
 
Compression Ignition Positive Ignition 
 
O2 concentration 
21 ± 1% 
10 ± 1% 
 
10 ± 1% 
5 ± 1% 
 
5 ± 1% 
0.5 ± 0.5% 
6.0 
ANALYSERS FOR MEASURING (SOLID) PARTICLE EMISSIONS 
 
This section defines requirements for analysers for measuring particle number 
emissions, once their measurement becomes mandatory. 
6.1 
General 
 
The PN analyser shall consist of a pre-conditioning unit and a particle detector 
that counts with 50 % efficiency from approximately 23 nm. It is permissible that 
the particle detector also pre-conditions the aerosol. The sensitivity of the 
analysers to shocks, vibration, aging, variability in temperature and air pressure 
as well as electromagnetic interferences and other impacts related to vehicle and 
analyser operation shall be limited as far as possible and shall be clearly stated by 
the equipment manufacturer in its support material. The PN analyser shall only 
be used within its manufacturer's declared parameters of operation. 
 
 



--- PAGE 652 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 652 of 762 
 
 
Figure 1 
 
Example of a PN Analyser Setup: 
 
Dotted lines depict optional parts. 
 
EFM = Exhaust mass Flow Meter, 
 
d = inner diameter, 
 
PND = Particle Number Diluter 
 
The PN analyser shall be connected to the sampling point via a sampling probe 
which extracts a sample from the centerline of the tailpipe tube. As specified in 
clause 3.5 of Appendix 1 of this Annex, if particles are not diluted at the tailpipe, 
the sampling line shall be heated to a minimum temperature of 373 K (100 °C) 
until the point of first dilution of the PN analyser or the particle detector of the 
analyser. The residence time in the sampling line shall be less than 3 s. 
 
All parts in contact with the sampled exhaust gas shall be always kept at a 
temperature that avoids condensation of any compound in the device. This can be 
achieved, e.g. by heating at a higher temperature and diluting the sample or 
oxidizing the (semi)volatile species. 
 
The PN analyser shall include a heated section at wall temperature ≥ 573K. The 
unit shall control the heated stages to constant nominal operating temperatures, 
within a tolerance of ±10 K and provide an indication of whether or not heated 
stages are at their correct operating temperatures. Lower temperatures are 
acceptable as long as the volatile particle removal efficiency fulfils the 
specifications of 6.4. 
 
Pressure, temperature and other sensors shall monitor the proper operation of the 
instrument during operation and trigger a warning or message in case of 
malfunction. 
 
The delay time of the PN analyser shall be ≤ 5 s. 
 
The PN analyser (and/or particle detector) shall have a rise time of ≤ 3.5 s. 
 
Particle concentration measurements shall be reported normalised to 273 K and 
101.3 kPa. If necessary, the pressure and/or temperature at the inlet of the detector 
shall be measured and reported for the purposes of normalizing the particle 
concentration. PN systems that comply with the calibration requirements of this 
Part automatically comply with the calibration requirements of this Annex. 
6.2 
Efficiency requirements 
 
The complete PN analyser system including the sampling line shall fulfil the 
efficiency requirements of Table 3 A. of this Appendix 
 
Table 3 A 



--- PAGE 653 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 653 of 762 
 
PN Analyser (Including The Sampling Line) System Efficiency 
Requirements 
 
dp [nm] Sub-23 
23 
30 
50 
70 
100 
200 
 
E(dp) 
PN 
analyser 
To be 
determined 
0.2–
0.6 
0.3–
1.2 
0.6–1.3 
0.7–1.3 0.7–1.3 
0.5–2.0 
 
Efficiency E(dp) is defined as the ratio in the readings of the PN analyser system 
to a reference Condensation Particle Counter (CPC)’s (d50%=10 nm or lower, 
checked for linearity and calibrated with an electrometer) or an Electrometer’s 
number concentration measuring in parallel monodisperse aerosol of mobility 
diameter dp and normalized at the same temperature and pressure conditions 
 
The efficiency requirements will need to be adapted, in order to make sure that 
the efficiency of the PN analysers remains consistent with the margin PN. The 
material should be thermally stable soot-like (e.g. spark discharged graphite or 
diffusion flame soot with thermal pre-treatment). If the efficiency curve is 
measured with a different aerosol (e.g. NaCl), the correlation to the soot-like 
curve must be provided as a chart, which compares the efficiencies obtained using 
both test aerosols. The differences in the counting efficiencies have to be taken 
into account by adjusting the measured efficiencies based on the provided chart 
to give soot-like aerosol efficiencies. The correction for multiply charged 
particles should be applied and documented but shall not exceed 10 %. These 
efficiencies refer to the PN analysers with the sampling line. The PN analyser can 
also be calibrated in parts (i.e. the pre-conditioning unit separately from the 
particle detector) as long as it is proven that PN analyser and the sampling line 
together fulfill the requirements of Table 3 A of this Appendix. The measured 
signal from the detector shall be > 2 times the limit of detection (here defined as 
the zero level plus 3 standard deviations). 
6.3 
Linearity requirements 
 
The PN analyser including the sampling line shall fulfil the linearity requirements 
of clause 3.2 in this Appendix using monodisperse or polydisperse soot-like 
particles. The particle size (mobility diameter or count median diameter) should 
be larger than 45 nm. The reference instrument shall be an Electrometer or a 
Condensation Particle Counter (CPC) with d50=10 nm or lower, verified for 
linearity. Alternatively, a particle number system compliant with caluse 4.3 of 
Annex B5 of this Regulation. 
 
In addition the differences of the PN analyser from the reference instrument at all 
points checked (except the zero point) shall be within 15% of their mean value. 
At least 5 points equally distributed (plus the zero) shall be checked. The 
maximum checked concentration shall be the maximum allowed concentration of 
the PN analyser. 



--- PAGE 654 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 654 of 762 
 
 
If the PN analyser is calibrated in parts, then the linearity can be checked only 
for the PN detector, but the efficiencies of the rest parts and the sampling line 
have to be considered in the slope calculation. 
6.4 
Volatile removal efficiency 
 
The system shall achieve > 99% removal of ≥ 30 nm tetracontane 
(CH3(CH2)38CH3) particles with an inlet concentration of ≥10,000 particles per 
cubic-centimetre at the minimum dilution. 
 
The system shall also achieve a > 99% removal efficiency of polydisperse alcane 
(decane or higher) or emery oil with count median diameter > 50 nm and mass 
>1 mg/m3. 
 
The volatile removal efficiency with tetracontane and/or polydisperse alcane or 
oil have to be proven only once for the instrument family. The instrument 
manufacturer though has to provide the maintenance or replacement interval that 
ensures that the removal efficiency does not drop below the technical 
requirements. If such information is not provided, the volatile removal efficiency 
has to be checked yearly for each instrument. 
7.0 
INSTRUMENTS FOR MEASURING EXHAUST MASS FLOW 
7.1 
General 
 
Instruments, sensors or signals for measuring the exhaust mass flow rate shall 
have a measuring range and response time appropriate for the accuracy required 
to measure the exhaust mass flow rate under transient and steady state conditions. 
The sensitivity of instruments, sensors and signals to shocks, vibration, aging, 
variability in temperature, ambient air pressure, electromagnetic interferences 
and other impacts related to vehicle and instrument operation shall be on a level 
as to minimize additional errors. 
7.2 
Instrument Specifications 
 
The exhaust mass flow rate shall be determined by a direct measurement method 
applied in either of the following instruments: 
 
(a) 
 
Pitot-based flow devices; 
 
(b) 
 
Pressure 
differential devices 
like flow nozzle 
(details 
see  
ISO 5167); 
 
(c) 
 
Ultrasonic flow meter; 
 
(d) 
 
Vortex flow meter. 
 
Each individual exhaust mass flow meter shall fulfil the linearity requirements set 
out in clause 3 of this Appendix. Furthermore, the instrument manufacturer shall 
demonstrate the compliance of each type of exhaust mass flow meter with the 
specifications in clause 7.2.3 to 7.2.9. of this Appendix. 



--- PAGE 655 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 655 of 762 
 
 
It is permissible to calculate the exhaust mass flow rate based on air flow and fuel 
flow measurements obtained from traceably calibrated sensors if these fulfil the 
linearity requirements of clause 3 of this Appendix, the accuracy requirements of 
clause 8 of this Appendix and if the resulting exhaust mass flow rate is validated 
according to clause 4 of Appendix 3 of this Annex. 
 
In addition, other methods that determine the exhaust mass flow rate based on not 
directly traceable instruments and signals, such as simplified exhaust mass flow 
meters or ECU signals are permissible if the resulting exhaust mass flow rate 
fulfils the linearity requirements of clause 3 of this Appendix and is validated 
according to clause 4 of Appendix 3 of this Annex. 
7.2.1 
Calibration and Verification Standards 
 
The measurement performance of exhaust mass flow meters shall be verified with 
air or exhaust gas against a traceable standard such as, e.g. a calibrated exhaust 
mass flow meter or a full flow dilution tunnel. 
7.2.2 
Frequency of Verification 
 
The compliance of exhaust mass flow meters with clause 7.2.3 and 7.2.9 of this 
Appendix shall be verified no longer than one year before the actual test. 
7.2.3 
Accuracy 
 
The accuracy of the EFM, defined as the deviation of the EFM reading from the 
reference flow value, shall not exceed ± 3 per cent of the reading, or 0.3 per cent 
of full scale, whichever is larger. 
7.2.4 
Precision 
 
The precision, defined as 2.5 times the standard deviation of 10 repetitive 
responses to a given nominal flow, approximately in the middle of the calibration 
range, shall not exceed 1 % of the maximum flow at which the EFM has been 
calibrated. 
7.2.5 
Noise 
 
The noise, defined as two times the root mean square of ten standard deviations, 
each calculated from the zero responses measured at a constant recording 
frequency of at least 1.0 Hz during a period of 30 s, shall not exceed 2 % of the 
maximum calibrated flow value. Each of the 10 measurement periods shall be 
interspersed with an interval of 30 s in which the EFM is exposed to the maximum 
calibrated flow. 
7.2.6 
Zero Response Drift 
 
The zero response drift is defined as the mean response to zero flow during a time 
interval of at least 30 s. The zero response drift can be verified based on the 
reported primary signals, e.g., pressure. The drift of the primary signals over a 



--- PAGE 656 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 656 of 762 
 
period of 4h shall be less than ± 2 % of the maximum value of the primary signal 
recorded at the flow at which the EFM was calibrated. 
7.2.7 
Span Response Drift 
 
The span response drift is defined as the mean response to a span flow during a 
time interval of at least 30 s. The span response drift can be verified based on the 
reported primary signals, e.g., pressure. The drift of the primary signals over a 
period of 4 h shall be less than ± 2 % of the maximum value of the primary signal 
recorded at the flow at which the EFM was calibrated. 
7.2.8 
Rise Time 
 
The rise time of the exhaust flow instruments and methods should match as far as 
possible the rise time of the gas analysers as specified in clause 4.2.7 of this 
Appendix but shall not exceed 1 s. 
7.2.9 
Response Time Check 
 
The response time of exhaust mass flow meters shall be determined by applying 
similar parameters as those applied for the emissions test (i.e., pressure, flow 
rates, filter settings and all other response time influences). The response time 
determination shall be done with gas switching directly at the inlet of the exhaust 
mass flow meter. The gas flow switching shall be done as fast as possible, but 
highly recommended in less than 0.1 s. The gas flow rate used for the test shall 
cause a flow rate change of at least 60 % full scale of the exhaust mass flow meter. 
The gas flow shall be recorded. The delay time is defined as the time from the gas 
flow switching (t0) until the response is 10 % (t10) of the final reading. The rise 
time is defined as the time between 10 % and 90 % response (t90 – t10) of the 
final reading. The response time (t90) is defined as the sum of the delay time and 
the rise time. The exhaust mass flow meter response time (t90) shall be ≤ 3 s with 
a rise time (t90 – t10) of ≤ 1 s in accordance with clause 7.2.8. of this Appendix. 
8.0 
SENSORS AND AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT 
 
Any sensor and auxiliary equipment used to determine, e.g., temperature, 
atmospheric pressure, ambient humidity, vehicle speed, fuel flow or intake air 
flow shall not alter or unduly affect the performance of the vehicle's engine and 
exhaust after-treatment system. The accuracy of sensors and auxiliary equipment 
shall fulfil the requirements of Table 4 of this Appendix. Compliance with the 
requirements of Table 4 shall be demonstrated at intervals specified by the 
instrument manufacturer, as required by internal audit procedures or in 
accordance with ISO 9000. 
 
Table 4 
Accuracy Requirements for Measurement Parameters 
 
Measurement parameter 
Accuracy 
 
Fuel flow(1) 
±1% of reading(3) 



--- PAGE 657 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 657 of 762 
 
 
Air flow(1) 
±2% of reading 
 
Vehicle speed(2) 
±1.0km/h absolute 
 
Temperatures ≤600K 
±2K absolute 
 
Temperatures >600K 
±0.4% of reading in Kelvin 
 
Ambient pressure 
±0.2kPa absolute 
 
Relative humidity 
±5% absolute 
 
Absolute humidity 
±10% of reading or, 1gH2O/kg dry 
air, whichever is larger 
 
(1)   Optional to determine exhaust mass flow 
 
(2)   This general requirement applies to the speed sensor only; if vehicle speed is 
used to determine parameters like acceleration, the product of speed and 
positive acceleration, or RPA, the speed signal shall have an accuracy of 
0.1% above 3 km/h and a sampling frequency of 1 Hz. This accuracy 
requirement can be met by using the signal of a wheel rotational speed 
sensor. 
 
(3)   The accuracy shall be 0.02 % of reading if used to calculate the air and exhaust 
mass flow rate from the fuel flow according to clause 10 of Appendix 4 of 
this Annex. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 658 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 658 of 762 
 
Annex C6- Appendix 3 
Validation of PEMS and Non-Traceable Exhaust Mass Flow Rate 
1.0 
INTRODUCTION 
 
This Appendix describes the requirements to validate under transient conditions 
the functionality of the installed PEMS as well as the correctness of the exhaust 
mass flow rate obtained from non-traceable exhaust mass flow meters or 
calculated from ECU signals. 
2.0 
SYMBOLS, PARAMETERS AND UNITS 
 
% 
Per cent 
 
#/km 
Number per kilometer 
 
a0 
y intercept of the regression line 
 
a1 
Slope of the regression line 
 
g/km  
Gram per kilometer 
 
Hz 
Hertz 
 
km 
Kilometer 
 
m 
Meter 
 
mg/km 
Milligram per kilometer 
 
r2 
Coefficient of determination 
 
x 
Actual value of the reference signal 
 
y 
Actual value of the signal under validation 
3.0 
VALIDATION PROCEDURE FOR PEMS 
3.1 
Frequency of PEMS Validation 
 
It is recommended to validate the correct installation of a PEMS on a vehicle 
via comparison with laboratory installed equipment on a test performed on a 
chassis dynamometer either before the RDE test or, alternatively, after the 
completion of the test. 
3.2 
PEMS Validation Procedure 
3.2.1 
PEMS Installation 



--- PAGE 659 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 659 of 762 
 
 
The PEMS shall be installed and prepared according to the requirements of 
Appendix 1 of this Annex. The PEMS installation shall be kept unchanged in 
the time period between the validation and the RDE test. 
3.2.2 
Test Conditions 
 
The validation test shall be conducted on a chassis dynamometer, using an 
applicable Type Approval test cycle 
 
It is recommended to feed the exhaust flow extracted by the PEMS during the 
validation test back to the CVS. If this is not feasible, the CVS results shall be 
corrected for the extracted exhaust mass. If the exhaust mass flow rate is 
validated with an exhaust mass flow meter, it is recommended to cross-check 
the mass flow rate measurements with data obtained from a sensor or the ECU. 
3.2.3 
Data Analysis 
 
The total distance-specific emissions [g/km] measured with laboratory 
equipment shall be calculated following Annex B6 of this Regulation . The 
emissions as measured with the PEMS shall be calculated according to clause 
9 of Appendix 4 of this Annex, summed to give the total mass of pollutant 
emissions [g] and then divided by the test distance [km] as obtained from the 
chassis dynamometer. The total distance-specific mass of pollutants [g/km], as 
determined by the PEMS and the reference laboratory system, shall be 
compared and evaluated against the requirements specified in clause 3.3 of this 
Appendix. For the validation of NOX emission measurements, humidity 
correction shall be applied as per Annex B7 of this Regulation.  
3.3 
Permissible Tolerances for PEMS Validation 
 
The PEMS validation results shall fulfil the requirements given in Table 1 of 
this Appendix. If any permissible tolerance is not met, corrective action shall 
be taken and the PEMS validation shall be repeated. 
 
Table 1 
Permissible Tolerances 
 
Parameter [Unit] 
Permissible tolerance 
 
Distance [km](1) 
±250m of the laboratory reference 
 
THC(2) [mg/km] 
±15mg/km or 15% of the laboratory reference, 
whichever is larger 
 
CH4(2) [mg/km] 
±15mg/km or 15% of the laboratory reference, 
whichever is larger 
 
NMHC(2) [mg/km] 
±20mg/km or 20% of the laboratory reference, 
whichever is larger 



--- PAGE 660 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 660 of 762 
 
 
PN(2) [#/km] 
±1·1011 p/km or 50% of the laboratory reference(3)  
whichever is larger 
 
CO(2) [mg/km] 
±150mg/km or 15% of the laboratory reference, 
whichever is larger 
 
CO2 [g/km] 
±10g/km or 10% of the laboratory reference, whichever 
is larger 
 
NOx(2) [mg/km] 
±15mg/km or 15% of the laboratory reference, 
whichever is larger 
 
(1) Only applicable if vehicle speed is determined by the ECU; to meet the 
permissible tolerance it is permitted to adjust the ECU vehicle speed 
measurements based on the outcome of the validation test. 
 
(2) Parameter only mandatory if measurement required by clause 2.1 of this 
Annex. 
 
(3) PMP System 
4.0 
VALIDATION PROCEDURE FOR THE EXHAUST MASS FLOW RATE 
DETERMINED BY NON-TRACEABLE INSTRUMENTS AND SENSORS 
4.1 
Frequency of Validation 
 
In addition to fulfilling the linearity requirements of point 3 of Appendix 2 
under steady-state conditions, the linearity of non-traceable exhaust mass flow 
meters or the exhaust mass flow rate calculated from non-traceable sensors or 
ECU signals shall be validated under transient conditions for each test vehicle 
against a calibrated exhaust mass flow meter or the CVS. 
4.2 
Validation Procedure 
 
The validation shall be conducted on a chassis dynamometer under type 
approval conditions, as far as applicable, by following the requirements of 
Annex B6 of this Regulation. The test cycle shall be the WLTC. As reference, 
a traceably calibrated flow meter shall be used. The ambient temperature can be 
any within the range specified in Point 5.2 of this Annex. The installation of the 
exhaust mass flow meter and the execution of the test shall fulfil the requirement 
of clause 3.4.3 of Appendix 1 of this Annex. 
 
The following calculation steps shall be taken to validate the linearity: 
 
(a) 
 
The signal under validation and the reference signal shall be time 
corrected by following, as far as applicable, the requirements of clause 
3 of Appendix 4 of this Annex. 
 
(b) 
 
Points below 10 % of the maximum flow value shall be excluded from 
the further analysis. 



--- PAGE 661 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 661 of 762 
 
 
(c) 
 
At a constant frequency of at least 1.0 Hz, the signal under validation 
and the reference signal shall be correlated using the best-fit equation 
having the form: 
 
y = a1 x + a0 
 
where: 
 
y   = Actual value of the signal under validation 
 
a1  = Slope of the regression line 
 
x    = Actual value of the reference signal 
 
a0   = y intercept of the regression line 
 
The standard error of estimate (SEE) of y on x and the coefficient of 
determination (r2) shall be calculated for each measurement parameter and 
system. 
 
(d) 
 
The linear regression parameters shall meet the requirements specified 
in Table 2 of this Appendix. 
4.3 
Requirements 
 
The linearity requirements given in Table 2 of this Appendix shall be fulfilled. 
If any permissible tolerance is not met, corrective action shall be taken and the 
validation shall be repeated. 
 
Table 2 
Linearity Requirements of Calculated and Measured Exhaust Mass Flow 
 
Measurement 
parameter/ 
system 
a0 
Slope a1 
Standard 
error SEE 
Coefficient 
of  
determination r2 
 
Exhaust mass 
flow 
0.0 ± 3.0 kg/h 1.00 ± 0.075 ≤10% max 
≥0.90 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 662 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 662 of 762 
 
 
Annex C6- Appendix 4 
Determination of Instantaneous Emissions 
1.0 
INTRODUCTION 
 
This Appendix  describes the procedure to determine the instantaneous mass 
and particle number emissions [g/s; #/s], following application of the data 
consistency rules of Appendix 1. The instantaneous mass and particle number 
emissions shall then be used for the subsequent evaluation of a RDE trip and 
the calculation of the intermediate and final emission result as described in 
Appendix 10 of this Annex. 
2.0 
SYMBOLS, PARAMETERS AND UNITS 
 
% 
Per cent 
 
< 
 
Smaller than 
 
#/s 
Number per second 
 
α 
Molar hydrogen ratio (H/C) 
 
β 
Molar carbon ratio (C/C) 
 
γ 
Molar sulphur ratio (S/C) 
 
δ 
Molar nitrogen ratio (N/C) 
 
∆tt,i 
Transformation time t of the analyser [s] 
 
∆tt,m 
Transformation time t of the exhaust mass flow meter [s] 
 
ε 
Molar oxygen ratio (O/C) 
 
ρe 
Density of the exhaust 
 
ρgas 
Density of the exhaust component "gas" 
 
λ 
Excess air ratio 
 
λi 
Instantaneous excess air ratio 
 
A/Fst 
Stoichiometric air-to-fuel ratio [kg/kg] 
 
°C 
Degrees centigrade 
 
CCH4 
Concentration of methane 
 
CCO 
Dry CO concentration [%] 



--- PAGE 663 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 663 of 762 
 
 
CCO2 
Dry CO2 concentration [%] 
 
Cdry 
Dry concentration of a pollutant in ppm or per cent volume 
 
Cgas,i 
Instantaneous concentration of the exhaust component "gas" [ppm] 
 
CHCw 
Wet HC concentration [ppm] 
 
CHC(w/NM
C) 
HC concentration with CH4 or C2H6 flowing through the NMC 
[ppmC1] 
 
CHC(w/oN
MC) 
HC concentration with CH4 or C2H6 bypassing the NMC [ppmC1] 
 
Ci,c 
Time-corrected concentration of component i [ppm] 
 
Ci,r 
Concentration of component i [ppm] in the exhaust 
 
CNMHC 
Concentration of non-methane hydrocarbons 
 
Cwet 
Wet concentration of a pollutant in ppm or per cent volume 
 
EE 
Ethane efficiency 
 
EM 
Methane efficiency 
 
g 
Gram 
 
g/s 
Gram per second 
 
Ha 
Intake air humidity [g water per kg dry air] 
 
i 
Number of the measurement 
 
kg 
Kilogram 
 
kg/h 
Kilogram per hour 
 
kg/s 
Kilogram per second 
 
kw 
Dry-wet correction factor 
 
m 
Meter 
 
mgas,i 
Mass of the exhaust component "gas" [g/s] 
 
qmaw,i 
Instantaneous intake air mass flow rate [kg/s] 
 
qm,c 
Time-corrected exhaust mass flow rate [kg/s] 
 
qmaw,i 
Instantaneous exhaust mass flow rate [kg/s] 



--- PAGE 664 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 664 of 762 
 
 
qmf,i 
Instantaneous fuel mass flow rate [kg/s] 
 
qm,r 
Raw exhaust mass flow rate [kg/s] 
 
r 
Cross-correlation coefficient 
 
r2 
Coefficient of determination 
 
rh 
Hydrocarbon response factor 
 
rpm 
Revolutions per minute 
 
s 
Second 
 
ugas 
u value of the exhaust component "gas" 
3.0 
TIME CORRECTION OF PARAMETERS 
 
For the correct calculation of distance-specific emissions, the recorded traces 
of component concentrations, exhaust mass flow rate, vehicle speed, and other 
vehicle data shall be time corrected. To facilitate the time correction, data 
which are subject to time alignment shall be recorded either in a single data 
recording device or with a synchronised timestamp following point 5.1 of 
Appendix 1. The time correction and alignment of parameters shall be carried 
out by following the sequence described in points 3.1 to 3.3 of this Appendix. 
3.1 
Time Correction of Component Concentrations 
 
The recorded traces of all component concentrations shall be time corrected by 
reverse shifting according to the transformation times of the respective 
analysers. The transformation time of analysers shall be determined according 
to clause 4.4 of Appendix 2 of this Annex: 
 
Ci,c(t- ∆tt,i)=Ci,r(t) 
 
where: 
 
Ci,c  = 
Time-corrected concentration of component i as function of time t 
 
Ci,r  = 
Raw concentration of component i as function of time t 
 
∆tt,i  = 
Transformation time t of the analyser measuring component i 
3.2 
Time Correction of Exhaust Mass Flow Rate 
 
The exhaust mass flow rate measured with an exhaust flow meter shall be time 
corrected by reverse shifting according to the transformation time of the 
exhaust mass flow meter. The transformation time of the mass flow meter shall 
be determined according to clause 4.4 of Appendix 2 of this Annex: 
 
qm,c(t-∆tt,m)=qm,r(t) 



--- PAGE 665 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 665 of 762 
 
 
where: 
 
qm,c  = 
Time-corrected exhaust mass flow rate as function of time t 
 
qm,r  = 
Raw exhaust mass flow rate as function of time t 
 
∆tt,m  = 
Transformation time t of the exhaust mass flow meter 
 
In case the exhaust mass flow rate is determined by ECU data or a sensor, an 
additional transformation time shall be considered and obtained by cross-
correlation between the calculated exhaust mass flow rate   and   the   exhaust  
mass   flow rate   measured following clause 4 of Appendix 3 of this Annex. 
3.3 
Time Alignment of Vehicle Data 
 
Other data obtained from a sensor or the ECU shall be time-aligned by cross-
correlation with suitable emission data (e.g., component concentrations). 
3.3.1 
Vehicle Speed from Different Sources 
 
To time align vehicle speed with the exhaust mass flow rate, it is first necessary 
to establish one valid speed trace. In case vehicle speed is obtained from 
multiple sources (e.g., the GNSS, a sensor or the ECU), the speed values shall 
be time aligned by cross-correlation. 
3.3.2 
Vehicle Speed with Exhaust Mass Flow Rate 
 
Vehicle speed shall be time aligned with the exhaust mass flow rate by cross-
correlation between the exhaust mass flow rate and the product of vehicle 
speed and positive acceleration. 
3.3.3 
Further Signals 
 
The time alignment of signals whose values change slowly and within a small 
value range, e.g. ambient temperature, can be omitted. 
4.0 
COLD START 
 
Cold start for the purposes of RDE is the period from the test start until the 
point when the vehicle has run for 5 minutes. If the coolant temperature is 
determined, the cold start period ends once the coolant is at least 70 °C for the 
first time but no later than 5 minutes after test start. 
5.0 
EMISSION MEASUREMENTS DURING STOP OF THE COMBUSTION 
ENGINE 
 
Any instantaneous emissions or exhaust flow measurements obtained while the 
combustion engine is deactivated shall be recorded. In a separate step, the 
recorded values shall afterward be set to zero by the data post processing. The 
combustion engine shall be considered as deactivated if two of the following 
criteria apply: the recorded engine speed is <50rpm; the exhaust mass flow rate 



--- PAGE 666 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 666 of 762 
 
is measured at < 3kg/h; the measured exhaust mass flow rate drops to <15% of 
the typical steady-state exhaust mass flow rate at idling. 
8.0 
CORRECTION OF EMISSIONS 
8.1 
Dry-wet Correction 
 
If the emissions are measured on a dry basis, the measured concentrations shall 
be converted to a wet basis as: 
 
cwet = kw ⋅ cdry 
 
where: 
 
Cwet = 
Wet concentration of a pollutant in ppm or per cent volume 
 
Cdry = 
Dry concentration of a pollutant in ppm or per cent volume 
 
Kw = dry-wet correction factor 
 
The following equation shall be used to calculate kw: 
 
𝑘𝑤= (
1
1 + 𝑎× 0.005 × (𝐶𝑐𝑜2 + 𝐶𝑐𝑜) −𝑘𝑤1) × 1.008 
 
where: 
 
𝐾𝑤1 =
1.608 × 𝐻𝑎
1000 + (1.608 × 𝐻𝑎) 
 
Ha 
Intake air humidity [g water per kg dry air] 
 
CCO2 Dry CO2 concentration [%] 
 
CCO Dry CO concentration [%] 
 
𝑎  
Molar hydrogen ratio 
8.2 
Correction of NOx for Ambient Humidity and Temperature 
 
NOx emissions shall not be corrected for ambient temperature and humidity. 
8.3 
Correction of negative emission results 
 
Negative intermediate results shall not be corrected.  
Negative final results shall be set to zero. 
9.0 
DETERMINATION OF THE INSTANTANEOUS GASEOUS EXHAUST 
COMPONENTS 
9.1 
Introduction 



--- PAGE 667 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 667 of 762 
 
 
The components in the raw exhaust gas shall be measured with the 
measurement and sampling analysers described in Appendix 2 of this Annex. 
The raw concentrations of relevant components shall be measured in 
accordance with Appendix 1 of this Annex. The data shall be time corrected 
and aligned in accordance with clause 3 of this Appendix. 
9.2 
Calculating NMHC and CH4 Concentrations 
 
For methane measurement using a NMC-FID, the calculation of NMHC 
depends on the calibration gas/method used for the zero/span calibration 
adjustment. When a FID is used for THC measurement without a NMC, it shall 
be calibrated with propane/air or propane/N2 in the normal manner. For the 
calibration of the FID in series with a NMC, the following methods are 
permitted: 
 
(a) 
 
The calibration gas consisting of propane/air 
bypasses the NMC; 
 
(b) 
 
The calibration gas consisting of methane/air 
passes through the NMC. 
 
It is strongly recommended to calibrate the methane FID with methane/air 
through the NMC. 
 
In method (a), the concentrations of CH4 and NMHC shall be calculated as 
follows: 
 
𝐶𝐶𝐻4 =
𝐶𝐻𝐶(
𝑤
𝑜𝑁𝑀𝐻𝐶) × (1 −𝐸𝑀) −𝐶𝐻𝐶( 𝑤
𝑁𝑀𝐶)
(𝐸𝐸−𝐸𝑀)
 
 
𝐶𝑁𝑀𝐻𝐶=
𝐶𝐻𝐶( 𝑤
𝑁𝑀𝐶) −𝐶𝐻𝐶(
𝑤
𝑜𝑁𝑀𝐶) × (1 −𝐸𝐸
𝑟ℎ× (𝐸𝐸−𝐸𝑀)
 
 
In method (b), the concentration of CH4 and NMHC shall be calculated as 
follows: 
 
𝐶𝐶𝐻4 =
𝐶𝐻𝐶(
𝑤
𝑂𝑁𝑀𝐶) × 𝑟ℎ× (1 −𝐸𝑀) −𝐶𝐻𝐶(
𝑤
𝑂𝑁𝑀𝐶) × (1 −𝐸𝐸)
𝑟ℎ× (𝐸𝐸−𝐸𝑀)
 
 
𝐶𝑁𝑀𝐻𝐶=
𝐶𝐻𝐶(
𝑤
𝑂𝑁𝑀𝐶) × (1 −𝐸𝑀) −𝐶𝐻𝐶( 𝑤
𝑁𝑀𝐶) × 𝑟ℎ× (1 −𝐸𝑀)
(𝐸𝐸−𝐸𝑀)
 
 
where: 
 
CHC(w/oNMC) = HC concentration with CH4 or C2H6 bypassing the NMC  
[ppmC1] 
 
CHC(w/NMC)  =   HC   concentration   with   CH4  or  C2H6  flowing through the 
NMC [ppmC1] 



--- PAGE 668 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 668 of 762 
 
 
𝑟ℎ = Hydrocarbon response factor as determined in clause 4.3.3.(b) of 
Appendix 2 of this Annex. 
 
EM = Methane efficiency as determined in clause 4.3.4. (a) Of Appendix 2 of 
this Annex. 
 
EE = Ethane efficiency as determined in clause 4.3.4(b) of Appendix 2 of this 
Annex. 
 
If the methane FID is calibrated through the cutter (Method b), then the 
methane conversion efficiency as determined in clause 4.3.4. (a) of Appendix 
2 of this Annex is zero. The density used for calculating the NMHC mass shall 
be equal to that of total hydrocarbons at 273.15 K and 101.325 kPa and is fuel-
dependent. 
10.0 
DETERMINATION OF EXHAUST MASS FLOW 
10.1 
Introduction 
 
The calculation of instantaneous mass emissions according to points 11 and 12 
requires determining the exhaust mass flow rate. The exhaust mass flow rate 
shall be determined by one of the direct measurement methods specified in 
point 7.2 of Appendix 2. Alternatively, it is permissible to calculate the exhaust 
mass flow rate as described in points 10.2 to 10.4. 
10.2 
Calculation Method Using Air Mass flow Rate and Fuel Mass Flow Rate 
 
The instantaneous exhaust mass flow rate can be calculated from the air mass 
flow rate and the fuel mass flow rate as follows: 
 
qmew,i  = qmaw,i  + qmf.i 
 
where: 
 
qmew,i instantaneous exhaust mass flow rate [kg/s] 
 
qmaw,i instantaneous intake air mass flow rate [kg/s] 
 
qmf,i instantaneous fuel mass flow rate [kg/s] 
 
If the air mass flow rate and the fuel mass flow rate or the exhaust mass flow 
rate are determined from ECU recording, the calculated instantaneous exhaust 
mass flow rate shall meet the linearity requirements specified for the exhaust 
mass flow rate in point 3 of Appendix 2 and the validation requirements 
specified in point 4.3 of Appendix 3. 
10.3 
Calculation Method Using Air Mass Flow and Air-to-fuel Ratio 
 
The instantaneous exhaust mass flow rate can be calculated from the air mass 
flow rate and the air-to-fuel ratio as follows: 



--- PAGE 669 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 669 of 762 
 
 
𝑞𝑚𝑒𝑤,𝑖= 𝑞𝑚𝑎𝑤,𝑖× (1 +
1
𝐴
𝐹𝑠𝑡× 𝜆𝑖
) 
 
where: 
 
𝐴
𝐹𝑠𝑡
=
138.0 × (1 + 𝑎
4 −𝜀
2 + 𝛾)
12.011 + 1.008 × 𝑎+ 15.9994 × 𝜀+ 14.0067 × 𝛿+ 32.0675 × 𝛶 
 
𝜆𝑖
=
(100 −𝐶𝐶𝑂× 10−4
2
−𝐶𝐻𝐶𝑊× 10−4) + (𝑎
4 ×
1 −2 × 𝐶𝐶𝑂× 10−4
3.5 × 𝐶𝐶𝑂2
1 + 𝐶𝐶𝑜× 10−4
3.5 × 𝐶𝐶𝑂2
−𝜀
2 −𝛿
2
4.764 × (1 + 𝑎
4 −𝐶
2 + 𝛶) × (𝐶𝐶𝑂2 + 𝐶𝐶𝑂× 10−4 + 𝐶𝐻𝐶𝑊
 
 
where: 
 
qmaw,i  Instantaneous intake air mass flow rate [kg/s] 
 
A/Fst  Stoichiometric air-to-fuel ratio [kg/kg] 
 
λi  
Instantaneous excess air ratio 
 
CCO2 Dry CO2 concentration [%] 
 
Cco Dry CO concentration [ppm] 
 
CHCW Wet HC concentration [ppm] 
 
α 
Molar hydrogen ratio (H/C) 
 
β 
Molar carbon ratio (C/C) 
 
γ 
Molar sulphur ratio (S/C) 
 
δ 
Molar nitrogen ratio (N/C) 
 
ε 
Molar oxygen ratio (O/C) 
 
Coefficients refer to a fuel Cβ Hα Oε Nδ Sγ with β = 1 for carbon based fuels. 
The concentration of HC emissions is typically low and may be omitted when 
calculating λi. 
 
If the air mass flow rate and air-to-fuel ratio are determined from ECU 
recording, the calculated instantaneous exhaust mass flow rate shall meet the 
linearity requirements specified for the exhaust mass flow rate in clause 3 of 



--- PAGE 670 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 670 of 762 
 
Appendix 2 of this Annex and the validation requirements specified in Point 
4.3 of Appendix 3 of this Annex. 
10.4 
Calculation Method Using Fuel Mass Flow and Air-to-fuel Ratio 
 
The instantaneous exhaust mass flow rate can be calculated from the fuel flow 
and the air-to-fuel ratio (calculated with A/Fst and λi according to clause 10.3 
of this Appendix) as follows: 
 
𝑞𝑚𝑒𝑤,𝑖= 𝑞𝑚𝑓,𝑖× (1 + 𝐴
𝐹𝑠𝑡
× 𝜆𝑖) 
 
𝑞𝑚𝑒𝑤,𝑖= 𝑞𝑚𝑎𝑤,𝑖× (1 + 𝐴/𝐹𝑠𝑡× 𝑖) 
 
The calculated instantaneous exhaust mass flow rate shall meet the linearity 
requirements specified for the exhaust gas mass flow rate in clause 3 of 
Appendix 2 of this Annex and the validation requirements specified in clause 
4.3 of Appendix 3 of this Annex. 
11.0 
CALCULATING THE INSTANTANEOUS MASS EMISSIONS 
 
The instantaneous   mass emissions [g/s] shall be determined by multiplying 
the instantaneous concentration of the pollutant under consideration [ppm] 
with the instantaneous exhaust mass flow rate [kg/s], both corrected and 
aligned for the transformation time, and the respective u value of Table 1 of 
this Appendix. If measured on a dry basis, the dry-wet correction according to 
clause 8.1 of this Appendix shall be applied to the instantaneous component 
concentrations before executing any further calculations. If applicable, 
negative instantaneous emission values shall enter all subsequent data 
evaluations. All significant digits of intermediate results shall enter the 
calculation of instantaneous emissions. The following equation shall be 
applied: 
 
𝑚𝑔𝑎𝑠,𝑖= 𝑢𝑔𝑎𝑠. 𝑐𝑔𝑎𝑠.𝑖. 𝑞𝑚𝑒𝑤.𝑖 
 
where: 
 
mgas,i   is mass of the exhaust component "gas" [g/s] 
 
ugas    is ratio of the density of the exhaust component "gas" and the overall 
density of the exhaust as listed in Table 1 of this Appendix. 
 
cgas,I     is measured  concentration  of  the  exhaust  component "gas" in the  
exhaust [ppm] 
 
qmew,I   is measured exhaust mass flow rate [kg/s] 
 
Gas    is respective component 
 
i         is number of the measurement 
 



--- PAGE 671 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 671 of 762 
 
 
Table 1 
Raw Exhaust Gas u Values Depicting the Ratio between the Densities of 
Exhaust Component or Pollutant [kg/m3] and the Density of the Exhaust Gas 
[kg/m3] 
 
 
Fuel 
ρe 
[kg/m3] 
Component or pollutant i 
 
NOx  
CO  
HC  
CO2  
O2  
CH4  
 
ρgas [kg/m3] 
 
2.052  
1.249  
(1)  
1.9630  
1.4276  
0.715  
 
ugas (2,6) 
 
Diesel 
(B0)  
1.2893  
0.001593  0.000969  0.000480  0.00152
3  
0.00110
8  
0.0005
55  
 
Diesel 
(B5)  
1.2893  
0.001593  0.000969  0.000480  0.00152
3  
0.00110
8  
0.0005
55  
 
Diesel 
(B7)  
1.2894  
0.001593  0.000969  0.000480  0.00152
3  
0.00110
8  
0.0005
55  
 
Ethano
l 
(ED95
)  
1.2768  
0.001609  0.000980  0.000780  0.00153
9  
0.00111
9  
0.0005
61  
 
CNG(3
)  
1.2661  
0.001621  0.000987  0.000528(4
)  
0.00155
1  
0.00112
8  
0.0005
65  
 
Propan
e  
1.2805  
0.001603  0.000976  0.000512  0.00153
3  
0.00111
5  
0.0005
59  
 
Butane  1.2832  
0.001600  0.000974  0.000505  0.00153
0  
0.00111
3  
0.0005
58  
 
LPG(5
)  
1.2811  
0.001602  0.000976  0.000510  0.00153
3  
0.00111
5  
0.0005
59  
 
Petrol 
(E0)  
1.2910  
0.001591  0.000968  0.000480  0.00152
1  
0.00110
6  
0.0005
54  
 
Petrol 
(E5)  
1.2897  
0.001592  0.000969  0.000480  0.00152
3  
0.00110
8  
0.0005
55  
 
Petrol 
(E10)  
1.2883  
0.001594  0.000970  0.000481  0.00152
4  
0.00110
9  
0.0005
55  
 
Petrol 
(E20) 
[RESERVED] 



--- PAGE 672 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 672 of 762 
 
 
Ethano
l (E85)  
1.2797  
0.001604  0.000977  0.000730  0.00153
4  
0.00111
6  
0.0005
59  
 
(1)   Depending on fuel 
 
(2)   at λ = 2, dry air, 273K, 101.3kPa 
 
(3)   u values accurate within 0.2% for mass composition of: C=66-76%; 
H=22-25%;  N=0- 12% 
 
(4)   NMHC on the basis of CH2.93 (for THC the ugas coefficient of CH4 
shall be used) 
 
(5)   u accurate within 0.2% for 
mass composition of: C3=70 - 90%; C4 = 
10 - 30% 
 
(6)  ugas is a unitless parameter; the ugas values include unit conversions to 
ensure that the instantaneous emissions are obtained in the specified 
physical unit, i.e., g/s 
12.0 
CALCULATING 
THE INSTANTANEOUS PARTICLE 
NUMBER 
EMISSIONS 
 
Calculating the instantaneous particle number emissions. 
 
The instantaneous particle number emissions [particles/s] shall be determined 
by multiplying the instantaneous concentration of the pollutant under 
consideration [particles/cm3] with the instantaneous exhaust mass flow rate 
[kg/s], both corrected and aligned for the transformation time. If applicable, 
negative instantaneous emission values shall enter all subsequent data 
evaluations. All significant digits of intermediate results shall enter the 
calculation of the instantaneous emissions. The following equation shall apply: 
 
𝑃𝑁, 𝑖= 𝐶𝑃𝑁,𝑖𝑞𝑚𝑒𝑤,𝑖/𝜌𝑒 
 
where: 
 
PN,i    = 
particle number flux [particles/s] 
 
C𝑃𝑁,𝑖    = 
measured particle number concentration [#/m3] normalized at 0°C 
 
𝑞𝑚𝑒𝑤,𝑖  = 
measured exhaust mass flow rate [kg/s] 
 
𝜌𝑒 
= 
density of the exhaust gas [kg/m3] at 0°C (Table 1)"; 
13.0 
DATA REPORTING AND EXCHANGE 
 
The data shall be exchanged between the measurement systems and the data 
evaluation software by a standardized reporting file as specified in clause 2 of 
Appendix 8 of this Annex. Any pre-processing of data (e.g. time correction 
according to clause 3 of this Appendix or the correction of the GNSS vehicle 
speed signal according to clause 7 of this Appendix) shall be done with the 
control software of the measurement systems and shall be completed before 



--- PAGE 673 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 673 of 762 
 
the data reporting file is generated. If data are corrected or processed prior to 
entering the data reporting file, the original raw data shall be kept for quality 
assurance and control. Rounding of intermediate values is  not permitted. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 674 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 674 of 762 
 
 
Annex C6 – Appendix 5 
Assessment of overall trip validity using the moving averaging window method 
1.0 
INTRODUCTION 
 
The Moving Averaging Window method is used to assess the overall trip 
dynamics. The test is divided in sub-sections (windows) and the subsequent 
analysis aims at determining whether the trip is valid for RDE purposes. 
 
The ‘normality’ of the windows is assessed by comparing their CO2 distance-
specific emissions with a reference curve obtained from the vehicle CO2 
emissions measured in accordance with the applicable type approval cycle. 
2.0 
SYMBOLS, PARAMETERS AND UNITS 
 
Index (i) refers to the time step 
 
Index (j) refers to the window 
 
Index (k) refers to the category (t=total, u=urban, r=rural, m=motorway) or to 
the CO2 characteristic curve (cc) 
 
Index "gas" refers to the regulated exhaust gas components (e.g. NOx, CO, 
PN) 
 
∆ 
Difference 
 
≥ 
Larger or equal 
 
# 
Number 
 
% 
Per cent 
 
≤ 
Smaller or equal 
 
a1, b1 
Coefficients of the CO2 characteristic curve 
 
a2, b2 
Coefficients of the CO2 characteristic curve 
 
dj 
Distance covered by window j [km] 
 
MCO2,ref Reference CO2 mass [g] 
 
Mgas 
Mass or particle number of the exhaust component "gas"[g] or [#] 
 
Mgas,j 
Mass or particle number of the exhaust component "gas" in window 
j [g] or [#] 
 
Mgas,d 
distance-specific emission for the exhaust component "gas" [g/km] 
or [#/km] 



--- PAGE 675 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 675 of 762 
 
 
Mgas,d,j 
distance-specific emission for the exhaust component "gas" in 
window j 
 
Nk 
number of windows for urban, rural, and motorway shares 
 
P1, P2, P3 reference points 
 
t 
time [s] 
 
t1,j 
first second of the jth averaging window [s] 
 
t2,j 
last second of the jth averaging window [s] 
 
ti 
total time in step i [s] 
 
ti,j 
total time in Step i considering window j [s] 
 
tol1H           upper tolerance for the vehicle CO2 characteristic curve, [%] 
 
 tol1L          lower tolerance for the vehicle CO2 characteristic curve, [%] 
 
tt 
duration of a test [s] 
 
v 
vehicle speed [km/h] 
 
𝑣̅ 
average speed of windows [km/h] 
 
𝑣𝑃1
̅̅̅̅̅               #Average Speed of the respective Low Speed phase of the respective 
Type-1 WLTP cycle depending upon the class of vehicle. (km/h) 
 
vt 
        actual vehicle speed in time step i [km/h] 
 
𝑣𝑗̅                average vehicle speed in window j [km/h] 
 
𝑣𝑃2
̅̅̅̅̅             For M, N1 & #M1/N1 Low powered Category of Vehicle. 
 
Average speed of the respective Medium speed phase of the 
respective Type-1 WLTP cycle km/h 
 
𝑣𝑃3
̅̅̅̅̅        For M & N1 & #M1/N1 Low powered Category of Vehicle. 
 
Average Speed of the respective High Speed phase of the respective Type-1 
WLTP cycle depending upon the class of vehicle 
 
# Reserved for M1/N1 Low Powered Category of Vehicles 
3.0 
MOVING AVERAGING WINDOWS 
3.1 
Definition of Averaging Windows 
 
The instantaneous CO2 emissions calculated according to Appendix 4 shall be 
integrated using a moving averaging window method, based on an appropriate 



--- PAGE 676 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 676 of 762 
 
reference CO2 mass. The reference CO2 mass shall be half of the Type I cycle 
(WLTC).  
. 
The moving window calculations are conducted with a time increment Δt 
corresponding to the data sampling frequency. These sub-sets used to calculate 
the vehicle on-road CO2 emissions and its average speed are referred to as 
‘averaging windows’ in the following sections. The calculation described in 
the present point shall be run from the first data point (forward) as shown in 
Figure 1.   
 
The usage of the reference CO2 mass is illustrated in Figure 2. The principle 
of the calculation is as follows: The RDE distance-specific CO2 mass 
emissions are not calculated for the complete data set, but for sub-sets of the 
complete data set, the length of these sub-sets being determined so as to match 
always the same fraction of the CO2 mass emitted by the vehicle over the 
applicable WLTP test.  
 
The following data shall not be considered for the calculation of the CO2 mass, 
the distance and the vehicle average speed in each averaging window: 
 
- The periodic verification of the instruments and/or after the zero drift 
verifications; 
 
- Vehicle ground speed <1km/h; 
 
The calculation shall start from when vehicle ground speed is higher than or 
equal to 1 km/h and include driving events during which no CO2 is emitted 
and where the vehicle ground speed is higher than or equal to 1 km/h. 
The mass emissions M(CO2,j) shall be determined by integrating the 
instantaneous emissions in g/s as specified in Appendix 4 of this Chapter. 
 
 
 
Figure 1 
Vehicle Speed Versus Time – Vehicle Averaged Emissions Versus Time, 
starting from the First Averaging Window 



--- PAGE 677 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 677 of 762 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2 
Definition of CO2 Mass Based Averaging Windows 
 
The duration (t2,j – t1,j ) of the jth averaging window is determined by: 
 
MCO2 (t2, j) − MCO2 (t1, j) ≥ MCO2,ref 
 
where: 
 
MCO2 (ti, j) is the CO2 mass measured between the test start and time  (ti, j), [g]; 
 
MCO2, ref is the reference CO2 mass (half of the CO2 mass emitted by the 
vehicle over the applicable WLTP test as per Annex B6 of this regulation t2,j 
shall be selected such as:.  
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2(𝑡2,𝑗−𝛥𝑡) −𝑀𝐶𝑂2(𝑡1,𝑗) < 𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝑟𝑒𝑓≤𝑀𝐶𝑂2(𝑡2,𝑗) −𝑀𝐶𝑂2(𝑡1,𝑗) 
 
where ∆t is the data sampling period 
3.2 
Calculation of Window Emissions and Averages 
 
The following shall be calculated for each window determined in accordance 
with clause 3.1 of this Appendix. 
 
The distance-specific CO2 emissions MCO2,d,j; 
 
The average vehicle speed 𝑣̅j 
4.0 
EVALUATION OF WINDOWS 
4.1 
Introduction 
 
The windows are assessed by comparing their CO2 distance-specific emissions 
with a curve obtained from the vehicle CO2 emissions measured in accordance 
with the applicable type approval cycle. For that purpose, the windows are 
classified in urban, rural and motorway average speed classes. 
4.2 
CO2 Characteristic Curve Reference Points 



--- PAGE 678 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 678 of 762 
 
 
The distance-specific CO2 emissions to be considered in this paragraph for the 
definition of the characteristic curve shall be obtained from the tests conducted 
on the vehicle using the applicable type approval cycle(s). 
 
For OVC-HEV vehicles, the values shall be obtained from the applicable type 
approval cycle conducted using the Charge Sustaining mode. 
 
The reference Points P1,  P2 and P3 required to define the curve shall be 
established as follows: 
4.2.1 
Point P1 –Low speed point 
 
𝑉𝑃1=  Average Speed of the respective Low Speed phase of the respective 
Type-1 WLTP cycle depending upon the class of vehicle 
For M1/N1 Low powered vehicles: 
Vp1= Arithmetic mean of, average speed of Low phase (low 1) and average 
speed of additional low phase (low 1) of the Type-1 WLTP cycle. 
 
MCO2,d,P1 = Vehicle CO2 emissions over the Low Speed phase of the WLTP 
cycle [g/km] 
For M1/N1 Low powered vehicles: 
MCO2,d,P1 = Arithmetic average of, CO2 emission over the Low phase (low 
1) and additional low phase (low 1) of theType-1 WLTP cycle. 
4.2.2 
Point P2 – Medium speed point 
 
𝑉𝑝2 = Average Speed of the respective Medium speed phase of the 
respective Type-1 WLTP cycle depending upon the class of vehicle 
 
MCO2,d,P2 = Vehicle CO2 emissions over the Medium Speed phase of the 
WLTP cycle   [g/km] 
4.2.3 
Point P3 – High speed point 
 
𝑉𝑝3 = Average Speed of the respective High Speed phase of the respective 
Type-1 WLTP cycle depending upon the class of vehicle. 
For M1/N1 Low powered vehicles: 
Vp3 = 70 km/h 
 
MCO2,d,P3 = Vehicle CO2 emissions over the High Speed phase of the WLTP 
cycle [g/km] 
For M1/ N1 Low powered vehicles: 
MCO2,d,P3 = MCO2,d,P2 



--- PAGE 679 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 679 of 762 
 
 
4.3 
CO2 characteristic curve definition 
 
Using the reference points defined in clause 4.2 of this Appendix, the 
characteristic curve CO2 emissions are calculated as a function of the average 
speed using two linear sections (P1, P2 ) and (P2, P3). The section (P2, P3) is 
limited to 120 km/h on the vehicle speed axis. The characteristic curve is 
defined by equations as follows: 
 
For the section ((P1, P2 ): 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝑑,𝑐𝑐(𝑣̅) = 𝑎1𝑣̅ + 𝑏1 
 
With: 
 
𝑎1 = (𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝑑,𝑝2 −𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝑑,𝑝1)/(𝑣𝑝2
̅̅̅̅̅ −𝑣𝑝1
̅̅̅̅̅) 
 
And 
 
𝑏1 = 𝑀𝐶𝑜2,𝑑,𝑝1 −𝑎1𝑣𝑝1
̅̅̅̅̅ 
 
For the section (P_2,P_3): 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝑑,𝐶𝐶(𝑣̅) = 𝑎2𝑣̅ + 𝑏2 
 
 
𝑤𝑖𝑡ℎ: 𝑎2 = (𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝑑,𝑃3 −𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝑑,𝑃2) (𝑣𝑃3
̅̅̅̅̅ −𝑣𝑃2
̅̅̅̅̅)
⁄
 
 
𝑎𝑛𝑑: 𝑏2 = 𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝑑,𝑃2 −𝑎2𝑣𝑃2
̅̅̅̅̅ 
 
 
 
Figure 3 
Vehicle CO2 characteristic curve and tolerances for ICE and NOVC-
HEV vehicles(Illustrated for the case 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝑑,𝑃3 ≠ 𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝑑,𝑃2) 



--- PAGE 680 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 680 of 762 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4: 
Vehicle CO2 characteristic curve and tolerances for OVC-HEV vehicles 
(Illustrated for the case 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝑑,𝑃3 ≠ 𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝑑,𝑃2 
4.4 
Urban, Rural and Motorway Windows 
4.4.1 
Urban windows are characterized by average vehicle ground speeds smaller 
than 35 km/h for M, N1 & M1/N1 Low powered categories of vehicles. 
4.4.2 
Rural windows are characterized by average vehicle ground speeds 𝑣𝑗 
̅̅̅̅greater 
than or equal to 35 km/h and smaller than 55 km/h for M & N1 categories of 
vehicles and for M1/N1 low powered categories of vehicles since only 2 phases 
considered will be higher than or equal to 35 km/h. 
4.4.3 
Motorway windows are characterized by average vehicle ground speeds 𝑣𝑗 
̅̅̅̅ 
greater than or equal to 55 km/h and smaller than 120 km/h for M category 
vehicles &  𝑣𝑗 
̅̅̅̅greater than or equal to 55km/h and smaller than 80km/h for N1 
category vehicles.. 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5 
Vehicle CO2 Characteristic Curve: Urban, Rural and  



--- PAGE 681 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 681 of 762 
 
Motorway Driving Definitions (Illustrated for WLTP 3 phases ICE and 
NOVC-HEV vehicles) 
 
 
 
Figure 6 
Vehicle CO2 Characteristic Curve: Urban, Rural and  
Motorway Driving Definitions (Illustrated for WLTP 3 phases OVC-
HEV vehicles) 
5.0 
Verification of trip validity 
5.1 
Tolerances Around the Vehicle CO2 Characteristic Curve 
 
The upper tolerance of the vehicle CO2 characteristic curve is tol1H = 45 % for 
urban driving and tol1H = 40 % for rural and motorway driving. 
 
The lower tolerance of the vehicle CO2 characteristic curve is tol1L = 25 % for 
ICE and NOVC-HEV vehicles and tol1L = 100 % for OVC-HEV vehicles.  
For M1/N1 Low Powered vehicles: 
The lower tolerance of the vehicle CO2 characteristic curve is tol1L = 
30 % 
Note: The above criteria may be reviewed, if required, based on validation 
activity & analysis of existing data with intended PEMS software. 
5.2 
Reserved 
5.3 
Verification of Test Normality 
 
The test is valid when it comprises at least 50 % of the urban, rural and 
motorway windows that are within the tolerances defined for the CO2 
characteristic curve. 
 
For NOVC-HEVs and OVC-HEVs, if the minimum requirement of 50 % 
between tol1H and tol1L is not met, the upper positive tolerance tol1H may be 
increased by steps of 1 % until the 50 % target is reached. When using this 
mechanism, the value of tol1H shall never exceed 50 %. 



--- PAGE 682 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 682 of 762 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX C6 - APPENDIX 6 
 
RESERVED 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 683 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 683 of 762 
 
 
ANNEX C6 - APPENDIX 7 
SELECTION OF VEHICLES FOR PEMS TESTING AT INITIAL TYPE 
APPROVAL 
1.0 
INTRODUCTION 
 
PEMS tests are not required to be performed for each ‘vehicle type with regard 
to emissions’ as defined in this  Regulation, hereinafter ‘vehicle emission type’. 
Several vehicle emission types may be put together by the vehicle manufacturer 
to form a ‘PEMS test family’ in accordance with the requirements of clause 3 of 
this Appendix, which shall be validated according to the requirements of clause  
4 of this Appendix. 
2.0 
SYMBOLS, PARAMETERS AND UNITS 
 
N = Number of vehicle emission types 
 
NT = Minimum number of vehicle emission types 
 
PMRH = Highest power-to-mass-ratio of all vehicles in the PEMS test family 
 
PMRL = Lowest power-to-mass-ratio of all vehicles in the PEMS test family 
 
V_eng_max = Maximum engine volume of all vehicles within the PEMS test family 
3.0 
PEMS TEST FAMILY BUILDING 
 
A PEMS test family shall comprise finished vehicles with similar emission 
characteristics. Vehicle emission types may be included in a PEMS test family 
only as long as the completed vehicles within a PEMS test family are identical 
with respect to the characteristics in clause 3.1. and 3.2 of this Appendix. 
3.1 
Administrative criteria 
3.1.1 
The Test Agency issuing the emission type approval as per AIS 175. 
3.1.2 
A  Single Vehicle Manufacturer having received the emission type approval as 
per AIS 175. 
3.2 
Technical Criteria 
3.2.1 
Propulsion type (e.g. ICE, NOVC-HEV, OVC-HEV) 
3.2.2 
Type(s) of fuel(s) (e.g. gasoline, diesel, LPG, NG, …). Bi- or flex- fuelled 
vehicles may be grouped with other vehicles, with which they have one of the 
fuels in common. 
3.2.3 
Combustion Process (e.g. two stroke, four stroke) 
3.2.4 
Number of Cylinders 



--- PAGE 684 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 684 of 762 
 
3.2.5 
Configuration of the cylinder block (e.g. in-line, V, radial, horizontally opposed) 
3.2.6 
Engine Volume 
 
The vehicle manufacturer shall specify a value V_eng_max (=maximum engine 
volume of all vehicles within the PEMS test family). The engine volume of 
vehicles in the PEMS test family shall not deviate more than -5% from 
V_eng_max if V_eng_max ≥ 1500 cc and -7% from V_eng_max if V_eng_max 
< 1500 cc. 
3.2.7 
Method of Engine Fuelling (e.g. indirect or direct or combined injection) 
3.2.8 
Type of Cooling System (e.g. air, water, oil) 
3.2.9 
Method of aspiration such as naturally aspirated, pressure charged, type of 
pressure charger (e.g. externally driven , single or multiple turbo, variable 
geometries …) 
3.2.10 
Types and sequence of exhaust after-treatment components (e.g. three- way 
catalyst, oxidation catalyst, lean NOx trap, SCR, lean NOx catalyst, particulate 
trap). 
3.2.11 
Exhaust Gas 
Recirculation 
(with or 
without, 
internal/external, 
cooled/non-cooled, low/high pressure) 
3.3 
Extension of a PEMS Test Family 
 
An existing PEMS test family may be extended by adding new vehicle emission 
types to it. The extended PEMS test family and its validation must also fulfill 
the requirements of clause 3 and 4 of this Appendix. This may in particular 
require the PEMS testing of additional vehicles to validate the extended PEMS 
test family according to clause 4 of this Appendix. 
4.0 
VALIDATION OF A PEMS TEST FAMILY 
4.1 
General Requirements for Validating a PEMS Fest family 
4.1.1 
The vehicle manufacturer presents a representative vehicle of the PEMS test 
family to the Test Agency. The vehicle shall be subject to a PEMS test carried 
out by a Test Agency to demonstrate compliance of the representative vehicle 
with the requirements of this Annex 
4.1.2 
The Test Agency selects additional vehicles according to the requirements of 
clause 4.2 of this Appendix for PEMS testing carried out by a Test Agency to 
demonstrate compliance of the selected vehicles with the requirements of this 
Annex. The technical criteria for selection of an additional vehicle according to 
clause 4.2 of this Appendix shall be recorded with the test results. 
4.1.3 
With agreement of the Test Agency, a PEMS test can also be driven by a 
different operator witnessed by a Test Agency, provided that at least the tests of 
the vehicles required by points 4.2.2 and 4.2.6 of this Appendix and in total at 
least 50 % of the PEMS tests required by this Appendix for validating the PEMS 



--- PAGE 685 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 685 of 762 
 
test family are driven by a Test Agency. In such case the Test Agency remains 
responsible for the proper execution of all PEMS tests pursuant to the 
requirements of this Annex. 
4.1.4 
A PEMS test results of a specific vehicle may be used for validating different 
PEMS test families according to the requirements of this Appendix under the 
following conditions: 
the vehicles included in all PEMS test families to be validated are approved by 
a single Test Agency according to the requirements of  this Part and this Test 
Agency agrees to the use of the specific vehicle's PEMS test results for validating 
different PEMS test families; 
each PEMS test family to be validated includes a vehicle emission type, which 
comprises the specific vehicle; 
For each validation the applicable responsibilities are considered to be borne by 
the manufacturer of the vehicles in the respective family, regardless of whether 
this manufacturer was involved in the PEMS test of the specific vehicle emission 
type. 
4.2 
Selection of Vehicles for PEMS Testing when Validating a PEMS Test Family 
 
By selecting vehicles from a PEMS test family it should be ensured that the 
following technical characteristics relevant for pollutant emissions are covered 
by a PEMS test. One vehicle selected for testing can be representative for 
different technical characteristics. For the validation of a PEMS test family 
vehicles shall be selected for PEMS testing as follows: 
4.2.1 
For each combination of fuels (e.g. gasoline-LPG, petrol-NG, petrol only), on 
which some vehicle of the PEMS test family can operate, at least one vehicle 
that can operate on this combination of fuels shall be selected for PEMS testing. 
4.2.2 
The manufacturer shall specify a value PMRH (= highest power-to- mass-ratio 
of all vehicles in the PEMS test family) and a value PMRL (= lowest power-to-
mass-ratio of all vehicles in the PEMS test family). Here the "power-to-mass-
ratio" corresponds to the ratio of the maximum net power of the internal 
combustion engine and of the mass in running order minus 75 kg. At least one 
vehicle configuration representative for the specified PMRH and one vehicle 
configuration representative for the specified PMRL of a PEMS test family shall 
be selected for testing. If the power-to-mass ratio of a vehicle deviates by not 
more than 5% from the specified value for PMRH, or PMRL, the vehicle should 
be considered as representative for this value. 
4.2.3 
At least one vehicle for each transmission type (e.g., manual, automatic, DCT, 
CVT, AMT) installed in vehicles of the PEMS test family shall be selected for 
testing. 
4.2.4 
 At least one four-wheel drive vehicle (4x4 vehicle) shall be selected for testing 
if such vehicles are part of the PEMS test family. 



--- PAGE 686 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 686 of 762 
 
4.2.5 
For each engine volume occurring on a vehicle in the PEMS family at least one 
representative vehicle shall be tested. 
4.2.6 
At least one vehicle for each number of installed exhaust after- treatment 
components shall be selected for testing. 
4.2.7 
RDE test shall be conducted in Cold & Hot conditions. For hot condition 50% 
of the selected vehicles to be tested and shall be rounded to the next higher 
integer number. 
4.2.8 
At least 1 vehicle with Minimum & 1 vehicle with Maximum Road Load forces 
at 80 Km/h shall be selected for RDE testing. 
4.2.9 
Notwithstanding the provisions in Points 4.2.1 to 4.2.8, at least the following 
number of vehicle emission types of a given PEMS test family shall be selected 
for testing: 
 
Number N of vehicle emission 
types in a PEMS test family 
Minimum number NT of vehicle 
emission types selected for PEMS 
testing 
 
1 
1 
 
from 2 to 4 
2 
 
from 5 to 7 
3 
 
from 8 to 10 
4 
 
from 11 to 49 
NT = 3 + 0.1 x N(*) 
 
more than 49 
NT = 3 + 0.15 x N(*) 
 
(*) NT shall be rounded to the next higher integer number 
4.2.10 
If required, based on mutual agreement between manufacturer & test agency 
additional test may be conducted for validating the PEMS Family. 
5.0 
REPORTING 
5.1 
The vehicle manufacturer provides a full description of the PEMS test family, 
which includes in particular the technical criteria described in clause 3.2 of this 
Appendix and submits it to the Test Agency. 
5.2 
The manufacturer attributes a unique identification number of the format TA-
OEM-X-Y to the PEMS test family and communicates it to the Test Agency. 
Here TA is the distinguishing number of the Test Agency issuing Approval, 
OEM is the 3 character manufacturer, X is a sequential number identifying the 
original PEMS test family and Y is a counter for its extensions (starting with 0 
for a PEMS test family not extended yet). 



--- PAGE 687 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 687 of 762 
 
5.3 
The Test Agency and the vehicle manufacturer shall maintain a list of vehicle 
emission types being part of a given PEMS test family on the basis of emission 
type approval numbers. For each emission type all corresponding combinations 
of vehicle type approval numbers, types, variants and versions shall be provided. 
5.4 
The Test Agency and the vehicle manufacturer shall maintain a list of vehicle 
emission types selected for PEMS testing in order validate a PEMS test family 
in accordance with clause 4 of this Appendix, which also provides the necessary 
information on how the selection criteria of clause 4.2 of this Appendix are 
covered. 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 688 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 688 of 762 
 
 
ANNEX C6 - APPENDIX 7A 
Assessment of Excess or Absence of Trip Dynamics 
1.0 
INTRODUCTION 
 
This Appendix describes the calculation procedures to verify the trip dynamics 
by determining the excess or absence of dynamics during an RDE trip. 
2.0 
SYMBOLS, PARAMETERS AND UNITS 
 
RPA 
Relative Positive Acceleration 
 
∆ 
Difference 
 
> 
Larger 
 
≥ 
Larger or equal 
 
% 
Per cent 
 
< 
Smaller 
 
≤ 
Smaller or equal 
 
a 
Acceleration [m/s2] 
 
ai 
Acceleration in time Step i [m/s2] 
 
apos 
Positive acceleration greater than 0.1m/s2 [m/s2] 
 
apos,i,k 
Positive acceleration greater than 0.1m/s2 in time 
 
Step i                    considering theurban, rural and motorway shares[m/s2] 
 
ares 
Acceleration resolution [m/s2] 
 
di 
Distance covered in time step i [m] 
 
di,k 
Distance covered in time step i considering the urban, rural 
and motorway shares [m] 
 
Index (i)               Refers to the time step 
 
Index (j) 
Refers to the time step of positive acceleration datasets 
 
Index (k) 
Refers to the respective category (t=total, u=urban, r=rural, 
m=motorway) 
 
Mk 
Number of samples for urban, rural and motorway shares with 
positive acceleration greater than 0.1 m/s2 



--- PAGE 689 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 689 of 762 
 
 
Nk 
Total number of samples for the urban, rural and motorway 
shares and the complete trip 
 
RPAk 
Relative positive acceleration for urban, rural and motorway 
shares [m/s2 or kWs/(kg*km)] 
 
tk 
Duration of the urban, rural and motorway shares and the 
complete trip [s] 
 
v 
Vehicle speed [km/h] 
 
vi 
Actual vehicle speed in time step i [km/h] 
 
vi,k 
Actual vehicle speed in time Step i considering the urban, 
rural and motorway shares [km/h] 
 
(v x a)I               Actual vehicle speed per acceleration in time Step i [m2/s3 or 
W/kg] 
 
(v x apos)j,k 
Actual vehicle speed per positive acceleration greater than 
0.1m/s2 in time Step j considering the urban, rural and 
motorway shares [m2/s3 or W/kg]. 
 
(v x apos)k [95]  95th  percentile of the product of vehicle speed per positive 
acceleration greater than 0.1m/s2 for urban, rural and 
motorway shares [m2/s3 or W/kg] 
 
vk 
average vehicle speed for urban, rural and motorway shares 
[km/h] 
3.0 
TRIP INDICATORS 
3.1 
Calculations 
3.1.1 
Data Pre-processing 
 
Dynamic parameters, such as acceleration, (𝑣×𝑎𝑝os) or RPA, shall be determined 
with a speed signal of an accuracy of 0.1 per cent for all speed values above 3 
km/h and a sampling frequency of 1 Hz. Otherwise, acceleration shall be 
determined with an accuracy of 0.01 m/s2 and a sampling frequency of 1 Hz. In 
this case, a separate speed signal is required for (𝑣×𝑎𝑝os) and shall have an 
accuracy of at least 0.1 km/h. The speed trace shall form the basis for further 
calculations and binning as described in paragraphs 3.1.2. and 3.1.3. 
3.1.2 
Calculation of distance, acceleration and (𝑣×𝑎) 
 
Calculation of distance, acceleration and (𝑣×𝑎). The following calculations shall 
be performed over the whole time based speed trace (1 Hz resolution) from 
second 1 to second Nt (last second). 
 
The distance increment per data sample shall be calculated as follows: 



--- PAGE 690 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 690 of 762 
 
 
𝑑𝑖=
𝑣𝑖
3.6,               i =1 to Nt 
 
𝑑𝑖 
Distance covered in time step i [m] 
 
𝑣𝑖 
Actual vehicle speed in time step i [km/h] 
 
𝑁𝑡 
Total number of samples 
 
The acceleration shall be calculated as follows: 
 
𝑎𝑖= 𝑣𝑖+1 −𝑣𝑖−1
(2)𝑥(3.6)  , 𝑖= 1 𝑡𝑜 𝑁𝑡 
 
where: 
 
ai  
Acceleration in time step i [m/s2].  For i = 1:  𝑣𝑖−1= 0, for i = Nt: 𝑣𝑖+1= 0. 
 
The product of vehicle speed per acceleration shall be calculated as follows: 
 
(𝑣×𝑎)i = vi x ai /3.6, i = 1 to Nt 
 
where: 
 
(𝑣× 𝑎))𝑖= (𝑣𝑖 𝑥 𝑎𝑖
3.6 ) , 𝑖= 1 𝑡𝑜 𝑁𝑡 
 
(𝑣× 𝑎)𝑖 
Product of the actual vehicle speed per acceleration in time step i 
[m2/s3 or W/kg]. 
3.1.3 
Binning of the Results 
 
After the calculation of ai and (𝑣×𝑎)i, the values vi, di, ai and (𝑣×𝑎)i shall be 
ranked in ascending order of the vehicle speed. 
 
For M category vehicles, All datasets with vi  < 45 km/h belong to the Phase I 
speed bin, all datasets with  45 km/h  ≤ vi  < 65 km/h belong to the Phase II 
speed bin and all datasets with vi ≥  65 km/h belong to the Phase III speed bin. 
 
For N1 category vehicles, all datasets with vi < 40 km/h belong to the Phase I 
speed bin, all datasets with 40 km/h ≤ vi < 60 km/h belong to the Phase II speed 
bin and all datasets with vi ≥ 60 km/h belong to the Phase III speed bin. 
 
For M1/N1 Low powered category vehicles, all datasets with vi < 45 km/h 
belong to the Phase I speed bin and all datasets with vi ≥ 45 km/h belong to the 
Phase II speed bin. 
 
For M & N1 category vehicles, The number of datasets with acceleration values 
ai > 0.1m/s2 shall be bigger or equal to 150 in each Phase I & Phase II speed 
bin and bigger or equal to 100 in Phase III speed bin. 



--- PAGE 691 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 691 of 762 
 
 
For M1/N1 Low powered category vehicles, the number of datasets with 
acceleration values ai > 0.1 m/s2 shall be bigger or equal to 150 in Phase I speed 
bin and bigger or equal to 100 in Phase II speed bin. 
 
For each speed bin the average vehicle speed 𝑉̅ k shall be calculated as follows: 
 
𝑉𝑘
̅̅̅ = (∑𝑣𝑖𝑘)
𝑁𝑘
, 𝑖= 1 𝑡𝑜 𝑁𝑘, 𝑘= 𝑢, 𝑟, 𝑚 
 
Where: 
 
Nk 
Total number of samples of the urban, rural, and motorway shares. 
3.1.4 
Calculation of (v×apos) [95] per speed bin 
 
The 95th  percentile of the v×apos values shall be calculated as follows: 
 
The (𝑣×𝑎)i,k values in each speed bin shall be ranked in ascending order for all 
datasets with ai,k > 0.1 m/s2 and the total number of these samples Mk shall be 
determined. 
 
Percentile values are then assigned to the (v×apos)j,k values with ai,k >0.1m/s2 as 
follows: 
 
The lowest v×apos value gets the percentile 1/ Mk, the second lowest  2/ Mk, the 
third lowest 3/ Mk and the highest value Mk / Mk =100%. 
(v×apos)k[95] is the (v·apos)j,k value, with j/ Mk = 95%. If j/ Mk = 95% cannot be 
met, (v×apos)k_[95] shall be calculated by liner interpolation between consecutive 
samples j and  j+1 with  j/Mk < 95% and (j+1)/ Mk > 95% 
 
The relative positive acceleration per speed bin shall be calculated as follows: 
 
𝑅𝑃𝐴𝑘=
∑(∆𝒕× (𝑣× 𝑎𝑝𝑜𝑠)𝑗,𝑘
𝑗
)
∑𝑑𝑖,𝑘
𝑖
,    𝑗= 1 𝑡𝑜 𝑀𝑘, 𝑖= 1 𝑡𝑜 𝑁𝑘, 𝑘= 𝑢, 𝑟, 𝑚 
 
where: 
 
RPAk is the relative positive acceleration for urban, rural and motorway shares 
in [m/s2 or kWs/(kg*km)] 
 
∆t is a time difference equal to 1s 
 
Mk is the sample number for urban, rural and motorway shares with positive 
acceleration 
 
Nk is the total sample number for urban, rural and motorway shares 
4.0 
VERIFICATION OF TRIP VALIDITY 



--- PAGE 692 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 692 of 762 
 
 
The trip validity shall be checked against the following criteria selected by 
Contracting Parties in order to reflect typical driving in their region, in order to 
avoid too aggressive or too mild driving during an RDE test.  
 
Assessment of (v x apos) k_95 per speed bin (with v in [km/h]) 
4.1.1 
Verification of v x apos_[95] per speed bin (with v in [km/h]) 
 
For M category of vehicles, 
 
If 𝑣𝑘≤ 56.9 km/h and  
 
(v x apos)k_[95] > (0.0467 x  𝑣𝑘
̅̅̅+ 12.2490) is fulfilled, the trip is invalid. 
 
If 𝑣𝑘
̅̅̅> 56.9 km/h and 
 
(v x apos)k_[95] > (0.1665 x  𝑣𝑘
̅̅̅+ 5.4352) is fulfilled, the trip is invalid. 
 
For N1 category of vehicles, 
 
If 𝑣𝑘
̅̅̅ ≤ 51.4 km/h and 
 
(v x apos)k_ [95] > (0.0614 x 𝑣𝑘
̅̅̅+ 6.9439) is fulfilled, the trip is invalid. 
 
If 𝑣𝑘
̅̅̅ > 51.4  km/h and 
 
(v x apos)k_ [95] > (0.0045 x 𝑣𝑘
̅̅̅+ 9.8664) is fulfilled, the trip is invalid. 
 
For M1 / N1 low powered category of vehicles, 
 
If (v x apos)k_ [95] > (0.0142 x 𝑣𝑘
̅̅̅+ 4.6214) is fulfilled, the trip is invalid. 
4.1.2. 
Verification of RPA per speed bin 
 
For M category of vehicles, 
 
If 𝑣𝑘
̅̅̅ ≤ 55.9 km/h and RPA < (-0.001825 x  𝑣𝑘
̅̅̅+ 0.1755) is fulfilled, the trip is 
invalid. 
 
If 𝑣𝑘
̅̅̅> 55.9 km/h and RPA < (-0.0011x 𝑣𝑘
̅̅̅+ 0.1350) is fulfilled, the trip is 
invalid. 
 
For N1 category of vehicles, 
 
RPA < (-0.0016x  𝑣𝑘
̅̅̅+ 0.1406) is fulfilled, the trip is invalid. 
 
For M1/N1 low powered category of vehicles, 
 
If 𝑣𝑘
̅̅̅≤ 54.76 km/h and RPA < (-0.0022 x 𝑣𝑘
̅̅̅+ 0.1271) is fulfilled, the trip is 
invalid. 
 
If 𝑣𝑘
̅̅̅> 54.76 km/h and RPA < 0.0066 is fulfilled, the trip is invalid. 



--- PAGE 693 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 693 of 762 
 
ANNEX C6 - APPENDIX 7B 
PROCEDURE TO DETERMINE THE CUMULATIVE POSITIVE ELEVATION 
GAIN OF A RDE TRIP 
 
1.0 
INTRODUCTION 
 
This Appendix describes the procedure to determine the cumulative elevation 
gain of a RDE trip. 
2.0 
SYMBOLS, PARAMETERS AND UNITS 
 
d(0) 
Distance at the start of a trip [m] 
 
d 
Cumulative distance travelled at the discrete way point under 
consideration [m] 
 
d0 
Cumulative distance travelled until the measurement directly before the 
respective way Point d [m] 
 
d1 
Cumulative distance travelled until the measurement directly after the 
respective way Point d [m] 
 
da 
Reference way point at d(0) [m] 
 
de 
Cumulative distance travelled until the last discrete way point [m] 
 
di 
Instantaneous distance [m] 
 
dtot 
Total test distance [m] 
 
h(0) 
Vehicle altitude after the screening and principle verification of data 
quality at the start of a trip [m above sea level] 
 
h(t) 
Vehicle altitude after the screening and principle verification of data 
quality at point t [m above sea level] 
 
h(d) 
Vehicle altitude at the way point d [m above sea level] 
 
h(t-1) 
Vehicle altitude after the screening and principle verification of data 
quality at Point t-1 [m above sea level] 
 
hcorr(0) Corrected altitude directly before the respective way point d [m above 
sea level] 
 
hcorr(1) Corrected altitude directly after the respective way point d [m above 
sea level] 
 
hcorr(t) Corrected instantaneous vehicle altitude at data point t [m above sea 
level] 



--- PAGE 694 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 694 of 762 
 
 
hcorr(t-1) 
Corrected instantaneous vehicle altitude at data point t-1 [m 
above sea level] 
 
hGNSS,i 
Instantaneous vehicle altitude measured with GNSS [m above 
sea level] 
 
hGNSS(t) 
Vehicle altitude measured with GNSS at data point t [m above 
sea level] 
 
hint(d) 
Interpolated altitude at the discrete way point under 
consideration d[m above sea level] 
 
hint,sm,1(d) 
Smoothed and interpolated altitude, after the first smoothing run 
at the discrete way point under consideration d [m above sea 
level] 
 
hmap(t) 
Vehicle altitude based on topographic map at data point t [m 
above sea level] 
 
Hz 
Hertz 
 
km/h 
Kilometer per hour 
 
m 
Metre 
 
roadgrade,1(d) 
Smoothed road grade at the discrete way point under 
consideration d after the first smoothing run [m/m] 
 
roadgrade,2(d) 
Smoothed road grade at the discrete way point under 
consideration d after the second smoothing run [m/m] 
 
sin 
Trigonometric sine function 
 
t 
Time passed since test start [s] 
 
t0 
Time passed at the measurement directly located before the 
respective way point d [s] 
 
vi 
Instantaneous vehicle speed [km/h] 
 
v(t) 
Vehicle speed at a data point t [km/h] 
3.0 
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 
 
The cumulative positive elevation gain of a RDE trip shall be determined based 
on three parameters: the instantaneous vehicle altitude hGNSS,i [m above sea 
level] as measured with the GNSS, the instantaneous vehicle speed vi [km/h] 
recorded at a frequency of 1 Hz and the corresponding time t [s] that has passed 
since test start 
4.0 
CALCULATION OF CUMULATIVE POSITIVE ELEVATION GAIN 



--- PAGE 695 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 695 of 762 
 
4.1 
General 
 
The cumulative positive elevation gain of a RDE trip shall be calculated as a 
two-step procedure, consisting of (i) the correction of instantaneous vehicle 
altitude data, and (ii) the calculation of the cumulative positive elevation gain. 
4.2 
Screening and Principle Verification of Data Quality 
 
The instantaneous vehicle speed data shall be checked for completeness. 
Correcting for missing data is permitted if gaps remain within the requirements 
specified in clause 7 of Appendix 4 of this Annex; else, the test results shall be 
voided. The instantaneous altitude data shall be checked for completeness. Data 
gaps shall be completed by data interpolation. The correctness of interpolated 
data shall be verified by a topographic map. It is recommended to correct 
interpolated data if the following condition applies: 
 
|ℎ𝐺NSS(𝑡) − ℎ𝑚𝑎𝑝(𝑡)| > 40𝑚 
 
The altitude correction shall be applied so that: 
 
h(t) = hmap(t) 
 
where: 
 
h(t)  
Vehicle altitude after the screening and principle verification of data 
quality at data point t [m above sea level] 
 
hGNSS(t)  Vehicle altitude measured with GNSS at data point t [m above sea 
level 
 
hmap(t)  
Vehicle altitude based on topographic map at data point t [m above 
sea level] 
4.3 
Correction of Instantaneous Vehicle Altitude Data 
 
The altitude h(0) at the start of a trip at d(0) shall be obtained by GNSS and 
verified for correctness with information from a topographic map. The deviation 
shall not be larger than 40m. Any instantaneous altitude data h(t) shall be 
corrected if the following condition applies: 
 
|ℎ(𝑡) −ℎ(𝑡−1)| > 𝑣(𝑡)
3.6 ∗𝑠𝑖𝑛45° 
 
The altitude correction shall be applied so that: 
 
hcorr(t) = hcorr(t-1) 
 
where: 
 
h(t) 
Vehicle altitude after the screening and principle verification of data 
quality at data   point t [m above sea level] 



--- PAGE 696 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 696 of 762 
 
 
h(t-1) 
Vehicle altitude after the screening and principle verification of data 
quality at data Point t-1 [m above sea level] 
 
v(t) 
Vehicle speed of data Point t [km/h] 
 
hcorr(t) 
Corrected instantaneous vehicle altitude at data point t [m above sea 
level] 
 
hcorr(t-1)  Corrected instantaneous vehicle altitude at data point t-1 [m above 
sea level] 
 
Upon the completion of the correction procedure, a valid set of altitude data is 
established. This data set shall be used for the calculation of the cumulative 
positive elevation gain as described in clause 4.4 pf this Appendix. 
4.4 
Final Calculation of the Cumulative Positive Elevation Gain 
4.4.1 
Establishment of a Uniform Spatial Resolution 
 
The total distance dtot[m] covered by a trip shall be determined as sum of the 
instantaneous distances di. The instantaneous distance di shall be determined 
as: 
 
𝑑𝑖= 𝑉𝑖
3.6 
 
Where: 
 
di =  Instantaneous distance [m] 
 
Vi=  Instantaneous vehicle speed [km/h] 
 
The cumulative elevation gain shall be calculated from data of a constant spatial 
resolution of 1m starting with the first measurement at the start of a trip d(0). 
The discrete data points at a resolution of 1m are referred to as way points, 
characterized by a specific distance value d (e.g., 0, 1, 2, 3 m…) and their 
corresponding altitude h(d) [m above sea level]. 
 
The altitude of each discrete way Point d shall be calculated through 
interpolation of the instantaneous altitude hcorr(t) as: 
 
ℎ𝑖𝑛𝑡(𝑑) = ℎ𝑐𝑜𝑟𝑟(0) + ℎ𝑐𝑜𝑟𝑟(1) −ℎ𝑐𝑜𝑟𝑟(0)
𝑑1 −𝑑0
∙(𝑑−𝑑0) 
 
Where: 
 
hint(d) 
Interpolated altitude at the discrete way point under consideration d 
[m above sea level] 
 
hcorr(0)  
Corrected altitude directly before the respective way point d [m above 
sea level] 



--- PAGE 697 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 697 of 762 
 
 
hcorr(1)  
Corrected altitude directly before the respective way point d [m above 
sea level] 
 
d         
Cumulative distance traveled until the discrete way point under 
consideration d [m] 
 
d0        
Cumulative distance travelled until the measurement located directly 
before the respective way point d [m] 
 
d1       
Cumulative distance travelled until the measurement located directly 
after the respective way point d [m] 
4.4.2 
Additional Data Smoothing 
 
The altitude data obtained for each discrete way point shall be smoothed by 
applying a two-step procedure; da and de denote the first and last data point 
respectively (Figure 1 of this Appendix). The first smoothing run shall be 
applied as follows: 
 
For d ≤ 200m 
 
𝑟𝑜𝑎𝑑𝑔𝑟𝑎𝑑𝑒,1(𝑑) = ℎ𝑖𝑛𝑡(𝑑+ 200𝑚) −ℎ𝑖𝑛𝑡(𝑑𝑎)
(𝑑+ 200𝑚)
 
 
For 200 m < d < (de - 200m) 
 
𝑟𝑜𝑎𝑑𝑔𝑟𝑎𝑑𝑒,1(𝑑) = ℎ𝑖𝑛𝑡(𝑑+ 200𝑚) −ℎ𝑖𝑛𝑡(𝑑−200𝑚)
(𝑑+ 200𝑚) −(𝑑−200𝑚)
 
 
For d ≥ (de -200m) 
 
𝑟𝑜𝑎𝑑𝑔𝑟𝑎𝑑𝑒,1(𝑑) = ℎ𝑖𝑛𝑡(𝑑𝑒) −ℎ𝑖𝑛𝑡(𝑑−200𝑚)
(𝑑𝑒) −(𝑑−200𝑚)
 
 
ℎ𝑖𝑛𝑡,𝑠𝑚,1(𝑑) = ℎ𝑖𝑛𝑡,𝑠𝑚,1(𝑑−1𝑚) + 𝑟𝑜𝑎𝑑𝑔𝑟𝑎𝑑𝑒,1(𝑑), 𝑑= 𝑑𝑎+ 1 𝑡𝑜 𝑑𝑒 
 
ℎ𝑖𝑛𝑡,𝑠𝑚,1(𝑑) = ℎ𝑖𝑛𝑡(𝑑𝑎) + 𝑟𝑜𝑎𝑑𝑔𝑟𝑎𝑑𝑒,1(𝑑𝑎) 
 
Where: 
 
roadgrade,1(d) 
Smoothed road grade at the discrete way point under 
consideration after the first smoothing run [m/m] 
 
hint(d) 
Interpolated altitude at the discrete way point under 
consideration d [m above sea level] 
 
hint,sm,1(d) 
Smoothed interpolated altitude, after the first smoothing run at 
the discrete way point under consideration d [m above sea level] 
 
d 
Cumulative distance travelled at the discrete way point under 
consideration [m] 



--- PAGE 698 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 698 of 762 
 
 
da 
Reference way point at meters [m] 
a 
distance  of 
zero  
 
de 
Cumulative distance travelled until the last discrete way point 
[m] 
 
 
 
 
The second smoothing run shall be applied as follows: 
 
𝑟𝑜𝑎𝑑𝑔𝑟𝑎𝑑𝑒,2(𝑑) = ℎ𝑖𝑛𝑡,𝑠𝑚,1(𝑑+ 200𝑚) −ℎ𝑖𝑛𝑡,𝑠𝑚,1(𝑑𝑎)
(𝑑+ 200 𝑚)
 
   for d≤200𝑚 
 
𝑟𝑜𝑎𝑑𝑔𝑟𝑎𝑑𝑒,2(𝑑) =
ℎ𝑖𝑛𝑡,𝑠𝑚,1(𝑑+200𝑚)−ℎ𝑖𝑛𝑡,𝑠𝑚,1(𝑑−200)
(𝑑+200 𝑚)−(𝑑−200𝑚)
 
 
      for 200m< 𝑑< (𝑑𝑒−200𝑚) 
 
𝑟𝑜𝑎𝑑𝑔𝑟𝑎𝑑𝑒,2(𝑑) =
ℎ𝑖𝑛𝑡,𝑠𝑚,1(𝑑𝑒)−ℎ𝑖𝑛𝑡,𝑠𝑚,1(𝑑−200)
𝑑𝑒−(𝑑−200𝑚)
 
       
 for d≥(𝑑𝑒−200𝑚) 
 
Where: 
 
 
roadgrade,2(d) 
Smoothed road grade at the discrete way point under 
consideration after the second smoothing run [m/m] 
 
hint,sm,1(d) 
Smoothed interpolated altitude, after the first smoothing run at 
the discrete way point under consideration d [m above sea level] 
 
d 
cumulative distance travelled at the discrete way point under 
consideration [m] 
 
da 
Reference way point at a distance of zero metres [m] 
 
de 
Cumulative distance travelled until the last discrete way point 
[m]. 



--- PAGE 699 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 699 of 762 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1 Illustration of the Procedure 
to Smooth the Interpolated Altitude Signals 
4.4.3 
   Calculation of the Final Result 
 
The positive cumulative elevation gain of a total trip shall be calculated by 
integrating all positive interpolated and smoothed road grades, i.e., 
roadgrade,2(d). The result should be normalized by the total test distance dtot 
and expressed in meters of cumulative elevation gain per one hundred 
kilometers of distance. 
The waypoint vehicle speed vw  shall then be calculated over each discrete way 
point of 1m: 
 
 
 
All datasets with vw ≤  speed of clause 6.3 of Annex C6 of this regulation belong 
to the urban part of the trip. 
 
All of the positive interpolated and smoothed road grades that correspond to 
urban datasets shall be integrated. 
 
The number of 1m waypoints which correspond to urban datasets shall be 
integrated and converted to km to define the urban test distance d urban [km]. 
 
The positive cumulative elevation gain of the urban part of trip shall then be 
calculated by dividing the urban elevation gain by the urban test distance, and 
expressed in meters of cumulative elevation gain per one hundred kilometers of 
distance. 



--- PAGE 700 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 700 of 762 
 
5.0 
NUMERICAL EXAMPLE 
 
Tables 1 and 2 of this Appendix show the steps performed in order to to calculate 
the positive elevation gain on the basis of data recorded during an on-road test 
performed with PEMS. For the sake of brevity an extract of 800 m and 160 s is 
presented here. 
5.1 
Screening and Principle Verification of Data Quality 
 
The screening and principle verification of data quality consists of two steps. 
First, the completeness of vehicle speed data is checked. No data gaps related 
to vehicle speed are detected in the present data sample (see Table 1 of this 
Appendix). Second, the altitude data are checked for completeness; in the data 
sample, altitude data related to seconds 2 and 3 are missing. The gaps are filled 
by interpolating the GNSS signal. In addition, the GNSS altitude is verified by 
a topographic map; this verification includes the altitude h(0) at the start of the 
trip. Altitude data related to seconds 112-114 are corrected on the basis of the 
topographic map to satisfy the following condition: 
 
hGNSS(t) – hmap(t) < – 40 m 
 
As result of the applied data verification, the data in the fifth column h(t) are 
obtained. 
5.2 
Correction of Instantaneous Vehicle Altitude Data 
 
As a next step, the altitude data h(t) of seconds 1 to 4, 111 to 112 and 159 to 
160 are corrected assuming the altitude values of seconds 0, 110 and 158 
respectively since the following condition applies: 
 
|ℎ(𝑡) −ℎ(𝑡−1)| > (𝑣(𝑡)
3.6 ∗𝑠𝑖𝑛45°) 
 
As result of the applied data correction, the data in the sixth column hcorr(t) 
are obtained. The effect of the applied verification and correction steps on the 
altitude data is depicted in Figure 2 of this Appendix. 
5.3 
Calculation of the Cumulative Positive Elevation Gain 
5.3.1 
Establishment of a Uniform Spatial Resolution 
 
The instantaneous distance di is calculated by dividing the instantaneous vehicle 
speed measured in km/h by 3.6 (Column 7 in Table 1 of this Appendix). 
Recalculating the altitude data to obtain a uniform spatial resolution of 1m 
yields the discrete way points d (Column 1 in Table 2 of this Appendix) and 
their corresponding altitude values hint(d) (Column 7 in Table 2 of this 
Appendix). The altitude of each discrete way Point d is calculated through 
interpolation of the measured instantaneous altitude hcorr as: 
 
ℎ𝑖𝑛𝑡(0) = 120.3 120.3 −120.3
0.1 −0
∗(0 −0) = 120.3 



--- PAGE 701 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 701 of 762 
 
 
ℎ𝑖𝑛𝑡(520) = 132.5 132.6 −132.5
523.6 −519.9 ∗(520 −519.9) = 132.5027 
5.3.2 
  Additional Data Smoothing 
 
In Table 2 of this Appendix, the first and last discrete way points are: da=0 m 
and de=799 m, respectively. The altitude data of each discrete way point is 
smoothed by applying a two steps procedure. The first smoothing run consists 
of: 
 
𝑟𝑜𝑎𝑑𝑔𝑟𝑎𝑑𝑒,1(𝑜) =
ℎ𝑖𝑛𝑡(200𝑚)−ℎ𝑖𝑛𝑡(𝑜)
(0)+(200𝑚)
=
120.9682−120.3000
200
=0.0033 
 
chosen to demonstrate the smoothing for d ≤ 200m 
 
𝑟𝑜𝑎𝑑𝑔𝑟𝑎𝑑𝑒,1(320) =
ℎ𝑖𝑛𝑡(520)−ℎ𝑖𝑛𝑡(120)
(520)+(120)
=
132.5027−121.9808
400
=0.0288 
 
chosen to demonstrate the smoothing for 200 m < d < (599m) 
 
𝑟𝑜𝑎𝑑𝑔𝑟𝑎𝑑𝑒,1(720) =
ℎ𝑖𝑛𝑡(799)−ℎ𝑖𝑛𝑡(520)
(799)+(520)
=
121.2000−132.5027
279
=-0.0405 
 
 
chosen to demonstrate the smoothing for d ≥ (599m) 
 
The smoothed and interpolated altitude is calculated as: 
 
hint, sm,1 (0 ) = hint (0 ) + road grade,1 (0 ) = 120 .3 + 0.0033 ≈ 120 .3033 m 
 
h int,sm,1 (799 ) = h int,sm,1 (798) + road grade,1 (799 ) = 121.2550 - 0.0220 = 
121.2330m 
 
Second smoothing run: 
 
𝑟𝑜𝑎𝑑𝑔𝑟𝑎𝑑𝑒,2(𝑜) = ℎ𝑖𝑛𝑡,𝑠𝑚,1(200) −ℎ𝑖𝑛𝑡,𝑠𝑚,1(𝑜)
200
= 119.9618 −120.3033
200
= −0.0017 
 
chosen to demonstrate the smoothing for d ≤ 200m 
 
𝑟𝑜𝑎𝑑𝑔𝑟𝑎𝑑𝑒,2(320) = ℎ𝑖𝑛𝑡,𝑠𝑚,1(520) −ℎ𝑖𝑛𝑡,𝑠𝑚,1(120)
520 −120
= 123.6809 −120.1843
400
= 0.0087 
 
 
chosen to demonstrate the smoothing for 200m < d < (599m) 



--- PAGE 702 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 702 of 762 
 
 
𝑟𝑜𝑎𝑑𝑔𝑟𝑎𝑑𝑒,2(720) = ℎ𝑖𝑛𝑡,𝑠𝑚,1(799) −ℎ𝑖𝑛𝑡,𝑠𝑚,1(520)
799 −520
= 121.2330 −123.6809
279
= −0.0088 
 
chosen to demonstrate the smoothing for d ≥ (599m) 
5.3.3 
Calculation of the Final Result 
 
The positive cumulative elevation gain of a trip is calculated by integrating all 
positive interpolated and smoothed road grades, i.e. roadgrade,2(d). For the 
presented example total covered distance was dtot= 139.7km and all positive 
interpolated and smoothed road grades were   of 516 m. Therefore the positive 
cumulative elevation gain reached 516*100/139.7 = 370m/100km was 
achieved. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 703 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 703 of 762 
 
 
 
Table 1 
Correction of Instantaneous Vehicle Altitude Data 
 
Time (t) 
v(t) 
hGNSS(t) 
hmap(t) 
h(t) 
hcorr(t) 
di 
Cum.d 
 
[s] 
[km/h] 
[m] 
[m] 
[m] 
[m] 
[m] 
[m] 
 
0 
0.00 
122.7 
129.0 
122.7 
122.7 
0.0 
0.0 
 
1 
0.00 
122.8 
129.0 
122.8 
122.7 
0.0 
0.0 
 
2 
0.00 
- 
129.1 
123.6 
122.7 
0.0 
0.0 
 
3 
0.00 
- 
129.2 
124.3 
122.7 
0.0 
0.0 
 
4 
0.00 
125.1 
129.0 
125.1 
122.7 
0.0 
0.0 
 
… 
 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
 
18 
0.00 
120.2 
129.4 
120.2 
120.2 
0.0 
0.0 
 
19 
0.32 
120.2 
129.4 
120.2 
120.2 
0.1 
0.1 
 
… 
 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
 
37 
24.31 
120.9 
132.7 
120.9 
120.9 
6.8 
117.9 
 
38 
28.18 
121.2 
133.0 
121.2 
121.2 
7.8 
125.7 
 
… 
 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
 
46 
13.52 
121.4 
131.9 
121.4 
121.4 
3.8 
193.4 
 
47 
38.48 
120.7 
131.5 
120.7 
120.7 
10.7 
204.1 
 
… 
 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
 
56 
42.67 
119.8 
125.2 
119.8 
119.8 
11.9 
308.4 
 
57 
41.70 
119.7 
124.8 
119.7 
119.7 
11.6 
320.0 
 
… 
 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
 
110 
10.95 
125.2 
132.2 
125.2 
125.2 
3.0 
509.0 
 
111 
11.75 
100.8 
132.3 
100.8 
125.2 
3.3 
512.2 
 
112 
13.52 
0.0 
132.4 
132.4 
125.2 
3.8 
516.0 



--- PAGE 704 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 704 of 762 
 
 
113 
14.01 
0.0 
132.5 
132.5 
132.5 
3.9 
519.9 
 
114 
13.36 
24.30 
132.6 
132.6 
132.6 
3.7 
523.6 
 
… 
 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
 
 
149 
39.93 
123.6 
129.6 
123.6 
123.6 
11.1 
719.2 
 
150 
39.61 
123.4 
129.5 
123.4 
123.4 
11.0 
730.2 
 
…… 
 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
 
 
157 
14.81 
121.3 
126.1 
121.3 
121.3 
4.1 
792.1 
 
158 
14.19 
121.2 
126.2 
121.2 
121.2 
3.9 
796.1 
 
159 
10.00 
128.5 
126.1 
128.5 
121.2 
2..8 
796.8 
 
160 
4.10 
130.6 
126.0 
130.6 
121.2 
1.2 
800.0 
 
… Denotes data gaps. 
 
Table 2 Calculation of Road Grade 
 
d [m] 
t0 [s] 
d0[m] d1[m] 
h0[m] 
h1[m] 
hint(d) 
[m] 
roadg
rade,1
(d) 
[m/m] 
hint,
sm,1
(d) 
[m] 
roadgra
de,2(d) 
[m/m] 
 
0 
18 
0.0 
0.11 
120.3 
120.4 
120.3 
0.003
5 
120.
3 
–0.0015 
 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
 
120 
37 
117.9
1 
125.7 
120.9 
121.2 
121.0 
–
00.00
19 
120.
2 
0.0035 
 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
 
200 
46 
193.4
1 
204.1 
121.4 
120.7 
121.0 
–
00.00
40 
120.
0 
0.0051 
 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
 
320 
56 
308.4 320.0 
119.8 
119.7 
119.7 
0.028
8 
121.
4 
0.0088 
 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
 
520 
113 
519.9 523.6 
132.5 
132.6 
132.5 
0.009
123.
0.0037 



--- PAGE 705 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 705 of 762 
 
7 
7 
 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
 
720 
149 
719.2 730.2 
123.6 
123.4 
123.6 
–
00.04
05 
122.
9 
–0.0086 
 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
… 
 
798 
158 
796.1 798.8 
121.2 
121.2 
121.2 
–
00.02
19 
121.
3 
–0.0151 
 
799 
159 
798.8 800.0 
121.2 
121.2 
121.2 
–
00.02
20 
121.
3 
–0.0152 
 
 
 
Figure 2 
The Effect of Data Verification and Correction – The Altitude Profile Measured 
by GNSS hGNSS(t), the Altitude Profile Provide by the Topographic Map 
hmap(t), the Altitude Profile Obtained after the Screening and Principle 
Verification of Data Quality at a h(t) and the Correction hcorr(t) of Data Listed in 
Table 1 of this Appendix 



--- PAGE 706 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 706 of 762 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3 
Comparison between the Corrected Altitude Profile hcorr(t) and the Smoothed 
Interpolated Altitude hint,sm,1 
 
 
Table 3 
Calculation of the Positive Elevation Gain 
 
d [m] 
t0 [s] 
d0 
[m] 
d1 
[m] 
h0 [m] 
h1 [m] 
hint(d) 
[m] 
roadg
rade,
1(d) 
[m/m] 
hint, 
sm,1
(d) 
[m] 
roadgr
ade,2(d
) [m/m] 
 
0 
18 
0.0 
0.1 
120.3 
120.4 
120.3 
0.003
5 
120.
3 
– 
0.0015 
 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
 
120 
37 
117.9 125.7 
120.9 
121.2 
121.0 
– 
0.001
9 
120.
2 
0.0035 
 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
 
200 
46 
193.4 204.1 
121.4 
120.7 
121.0 
– 
0,004
0 
120.
0 
0.0051 
 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
 
320 
56 
308.4 320.0 
119.8 
119.7 
119.7 
0.028
8 
121.
4 
0.0088 



--- PAGE 707 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 707 of 762 
 
 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
 
520 
113 
519.9 523.6 
132.5 
132.6 
132.5 
0.009
7 
123.
7 
0.0037 
 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
 
720 
149 
719.2 730.2 
123.6 
123.4 
123.6 
– 
0.040
5 
122,
9 
– 
0,0086 
 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
--- 
 
798 
158 
796.1 798.8 
121.2 
121.2 
121.2 
– 
0,021
9 
121.
3 
– 
0.0151 
 
799 
159 
798.8 800.0 
121.2 
121.2 
121.2 
– 
0,022
0 
121.
3 
– 
0,0152 
 
 
  
 



--- PAGE 708 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 708 of 762 
 
 
ANNEX C6 - APPENDIX 8 
DATA EXCHANGE AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS 
1.0 
INTRODUCTION 
 
This Appendix describes the requirements for the data exchange between the 
measurement systems and the data evaluation software and the reporting and 
exchange of intermediate and final results after the completion of the data 
evaluation. 
 
The exchange and reporting of mandatory and optional parameters shall follow 
the requirements of clause 3.2 of Appendix 1 of this Annex. The data specified in 
the exchange and reporting files of clause 3 of this Appendix shall be reported to 
ensure traceability of final results. 
2.0 
SYMBOLS, PARAMETERS AND UNITS 
 
a1 
Coefficient of the CO2 characteristic curve 
 
b1 
Coefficient of the CO2 characteristic curve 
 
a2 
Coefficient of the CO2 characteristic curve 
 
b2 
Coefficient of the CO2 characteristic curve 
 
tol1H                      Upper tolerance for the vehicle CO2 characteristic curve, [%] 
 
tol1L                       Lower tolerance for the vehicle CO2 characteristic curve, [%] 
 
(v · apos)k_[95] 
95th  percentile of the product of vehicle speed and positive 
acceleration greater than 0.1m/s2 for urban, rural and 
motorway driving [m2/s3 or W/kg] 
 
RPAk 
Relative positive acceleration for urban, rural and motorway 
driving [m/s2 or kWs/(kg*km)] 
3.0 
DATA EXCHANGE AND REPORTING FORMAT 
3.1. 
General 
 
Emission values as well as any other relevant parameters shall be reported and 
exchanged as csv-formatted data file. Parameter values shall be separated by a 
comma, ASCII-Code #h2C. Sub-parameter values shall be separated by a colon, 
ASCII-Code #h3B. The decimal marker of numerical values shall be a point, 
ASCII-Code #h2E. Lines shall be terminated by carriage return,     ASCII-Code 
#h0D. No thousands separators shall be used. 
3.2. 
Data Exchange 
 
Data shall be exchanged between the measurement systems and the data evaluation 
software by means of a standardised reporting file that contains a minimum set of 



--- PAGE 709 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 709 of 762 
 
mandatory and optional parameters. The data exchange file shall be structured as 
follows: The first 195 lines shall be reserved for a header that provides specific 
information about, e.g., the test conditions, the identity and calibration of the PEMS 
equipment (Table 1 of this Appendix). Lines 198-200 shall contain the labels and 
units of parameters. Lines 201 and all consecutive data lines shall comprise the 
body of the data exchange file and report parameter values (Table 2 of this 
Appendix). The body of the data exchange file shall contain at least as many data 
lines as the test duration in seconds multiplied by the recording frequency in Hertz. 
3.3. 
Intermediate and Final Results 
 
Summary parameters of intermediate results shall be recorded and structured as 
indicated in Table 3 of this Appendix. The information in Table 3 shall be obtained 
prior to the application of the data evaluation methods laid down in Appendices 5 
and 6 of this Annex. 
The vehicle manufacturer shall record the results of the MAW data evaluation 
methods in separate files. The results of the data evaluation with the method 
described in Appendix 5 of this Annex shall be reported according to Tables 4, 5 
and 6 of this Appendix. The header of the data reporting file shall be composed of 
three parts. The first 95 lines shall be reserved for specific information about the 
settings of the data evaluation method. Lines 101-195 shall report the results of the 
data evaluation method. Lines 201-490 shall be reserved for reporting the final 
emission results. Line 501 and all consecutive data lines comprise the body of the 
data reporting file and shall contain the detailed results of the data evaluation. 
4.0 
TECHNICAL REPORTING TABLES 
4.1. 
Data Exchange 
 
Table 1 
Header of the Data Exchange File 
 
Line 
Parameter 
Description/Unit 
 
1 
TEST ID 
[code] 
 
2 
Test date 
[day.month.year] 
 
3 
Organisation supervising the test [name of the organization] 
 
4 
Test location 
[city, country] 
 
5 
Person supervising the test 
[name of the principal supervisor] 
 
6 
Vehicle driver 
[name of the driver] 
 
7 
Vehicle type 
[vehicle name] 
 
8 
Vehicle manufacturer 
[name] 



--- PAGE 710 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 710 of 762 
 
 
9 
Vehicle model year 
[year] 
 
10 
Vehicle ID 
[VIN code] 
 
11 
Odometer value at test start 
[km] 
 
12 
Odometer value at test end 
[km] 
 
13 
Vehicle category 
[category] 
 
14 
Type approval emissions limit 
[Bharat Stage XX] 
 
15 
Engine type 
[e.g., spark ignition, compression 
ignition] 
 
16 
Engine rated power 
[kW] 
 
17 
Peak torque 
[Nm] 
 
18 
Engine displacement 
[ccm] 
 
19 
Transmission 
[e.g., manual, automatic] 
 
20 
Number of forward gears 
[#] 
 
21 
Fuel 
[e.g., gasoline, diesel] 
 
22 
Lubricant 
[product label] 
 
23 
Tyre size[width/height/rim 
diameter] 
[width/height/rim diameter] 
 
24 
Front and rear axle tyre pressure [bar; bar] 
 
25 b 
Road load parameters from 
MIDC 
[F0, F1, F2] 
 
26 
Type-approval test cycle 
[MIDC, WLTC] 
 
27 
Type-approval CO2 emissions 
[g/km] 
 
28 
CO2 emissions in MIDC mode 
Low Urban 
[g/km] 
 
29 
CO2 emissions in MIDC mode 
Extra urban 
[g/km] 
 
30 
Reserved 
 
 
31 
Reserved 
 
 
32 
Vehicle test mass
(1) 
[kg;% 
(2) ] 



--- PAGE 711 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 711 of 762 
 
 
33 
PEMS manufacturer 
[name] 
 
34 
PEMS type 
[PEMS name] 
 
35 
PEMS serial number 
[number] 
 
36 
PEMS power supply 
[e.g. % battery type] 
 
37 
Gas analyser manufacturer 
[name] 
 
38 
Gas analyser type 
[type] 
 
39 
Gas analyser serial number 
[number] 
 
40-50
(3) 
... 
... 
 
51 
EFM manufacturer
(4) 
[name] 
 
52 
EFM sensor type
(4) 
[functional principle] 
 
53 
EFM serial number
(4) 
[number] 
 
54 
Source of exhaust mass flow rate [EFM/ECU/sensor] 
 
55 
Air pressure sensor 
[type, manufacturer] 
 
56 
Test date 
[day.month.year] 
 
57 
Start time of pre-test procedure 
[h:min] 
 
58 
Start time of trip 
[h:min] 
 
59 
Start time of post-test procedure [h:min] 
 
60 
End time of pre-test procedure 
[h:min] 
 
61 
End time of trip 
[h:min] 
 
62 
End time of post-test procedure 
[h:min] 
 
63-70
(5) 
    ... 
... 
 
71 
Time correction: Shift THC 
[s] 
 
72 
Time correction: Shift CH4 
[s] 
 
73 
Time correction: Shift NMHC 
[s] 
 
74 
Time correction: Shift O2 
[s] 
 
75 
Time correction: Shift PN 
[s] 



--- PAGE 712 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 712 of 762 
 
 
76 
Time correction: Shift CO 
[s] 
 
77 
Time correction: Shift CO2 
[s] 
 
78 
Time correction: Shift NO 
[s] 
 
79 
Time correction: Shift NO2 
[s] 
 
80 
Time correction: Shift exhaust 
mass flow rate 
[s] 
 
81 
Span reference value THC 
[ppm] 
 
82 
Span reference value CH4 
[ppm] 
 
83 
Span reference value NMHC 
[ppm] 
 
84 
Span reference value O2 
[%] 
 
85 
Span reference value PN 
[#] 
 
86 
Span reference value CO 
[ppm] 
 
87 
Span reference value CO2 
[%] 
 
88 
Span reference value NO 
[ppm] 
 
89 
Span reference value NO2 
[ppm] 
 
90-95(5) 
    ... 
... 
 
96 
Pre-test zero response THC 
[ppm] 
 
97 
Pre-test zero response CH4 
[ppm] 
 
98 
Pre-test zero response NMHC 
[ppm] 
 
99 
Pre-test zero response O2 
[%] 
 
100 
Pre-test zero response PN 
[#] 
 
101 
Pre-test zero response CO 
[ppm] 
 
102 
Pre-test zero response CO2 
[%] 
 
103 
Pre-test zero response NO 
[ppm] 
 
104 
Pre-test zero response NO2 
[ppm] 
 
105 
Pre-test span response THC 
[ppm] 
 
106 
Pre-test span response CH4 
[ppm] 



--- PAGE 713 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 713 of 762 
 
 
107 
Pre-test span response NMHC 
[ppm] 
 
108 
Pre-test span response O2 
[%] 
 
109 
Pre-test span response PN 
[#] 
 
110 
Pre-test span response CO 
[ppm] 
 
111 
Pre-test span response CO2 
[%] 
 
112 
Pre-test span response NO 
[ppm] 
 
113 
Pre-test span response NO2 
[ppm] 
 
114 
Post-test zero response THC 
[ppm] 
 
115 
Post-test zero response CH4 
[ppm] 
 
116 
Post-test zero response NMHC 
[ppm] 
 
117 
Post-test zero response O2 
[%] 
 
118 
Post-test zero response PN 
[#] 
 
119 
Post-test zero response CO 
[ppm] 
 
120 
Post-test zero response CO2 
[%] 
 
121 
Post-test zero response NO 
[ppm] 
 
122 
Post-test zero response NO2 
[ppm] 
 
123 
Post-test span response THC 
[ppm] 
 
124 
Post-test span response CH4 
[ppm] 
 
125 
Post-test span response NMHC 
[ppm] 
 
126 
Post-test span response O2 
[%] 
 
127 
Post-test span response PN 
[#] 
 
128 
Post-test span response CO 
[ppm] 
 
129 
Post-test span response CO2 
[%] 
 
130 
Post-test span response NO 
[ppm] 
 
131 
Post-test span response NO2 
[ppm] 
 
132 
PEMS validation – results THC 
[mg/km;%](6) 



--- PAGE 714 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 714 of 762 
 
 
133 
PEMS validation – results CH4 
[mg/km;%] (6) 
 
134 
PEMS 
validation –
 
results NMHC 
[mg/km;%] (6) 
 
135 
PEMS validation – results PN 
[#/km;%] (6) 
 
136 
PEMS validation – results CO 
[mg/km;%] (6) 
 
137 
PEMS validation – results CO2 
[g/km;%] (6) 
 
138 
PEMS validation – results NOX [mg/km;%] (6) 
 
--- (7) 
--- (7) 
--- (7) 
 
(1) Mass of the vehicle as tested on the road, including the mass of the  driver and 
all PEMS components. 
 
(2) Percentage shall indicate the deviation from the gross vehicle  weight. 
 
(3) Placeholders for additional information about analyser manufacturer and serial 
number in case multiple analysers are used. Number of reserved rows is 
indicative only; no empty rows shall occur in the completed data reporting file. 
 
(4) Mandatory if the exhaust mass flow rate is determined by an EFM. 
 
(5) If required, additional information may be added here. 
 
(6) PEMS validation is optional; distance-specific emissions as measured with the 
PEMS; Percentage shall indicate the deviation from the laboratory reference 
 
(7) Additional parameters may be added until line 195 to characterize and label 
the test. 
 
Table 2 
Body of the Data Exchange File; the Rows and Columns of this Table shall be 
Transposed in the Body of the Data Exchange File 
 
Line 
198 
199
(1) 
200 
201 
 
 
Time 
trip 
[s] 
(2) 
 
 
Vehicle speed
(3) 
Sensor 
[km/h] 
(2) 
 
 
Vehicle speed
(3) 
GNSS 
[km/h] 
(2) 
 
 
Vehicle speed 
(3) 
ECU 
[km/h] 
(2) 
 
 
Latitude 
GNSS 
[deg:min:s] 
(2) 



--- PAGE 715 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 715 of 762 
 
 
 
Longitude 
GNSS 
[deg:min:s] 
(2) 
 
 
Altitude(3) 
GNSS 
[m] 
(2) 
 
 
Altitude(3) 
Sensor 
[m] 
(2) 
 
 
Ambient pressure 
Sensor 
[kPa] 
(2) 
 
 
Ambient temperature 
Sensor 
[K] 
(2) 
 
 
Ambient 
humidity 
Sensor 
[g/kg; %] 
(2) 
 
 
THC concentration 
Analyser 
[ppm] 
(2) 
 
 
CH4 concentration 
Analyser 
[ppm] 
(2) 
 
 
NMHC 
concentration 
Analyser 
[ppm] 
(2) 
 
 
CO concentration 
Analyser 
[ppm] 
(2) 
 
 
CO2 
concentration 
Analyser 
[ppm] 
(2) 
 
 
NOX concentration 
Analyser 
[ppm] 
(2) 
 
 
NO concentration 
Analyser 
[ppm] 
(2) 
 
 
NO2 concentration 
Analyser 
[ppm] 
(2) 
 
 
O2 concentration 
Analyser 
[ppm] 
(2) 
 
 
PN 
concentration 
Analyser 
[#/m3] 
(2) 
 
 
Exhaust mass flow 
rate 
EFM 
[kg/s] 
(2) 
 
 
Exhaust temperature 
in the EFM 
EFM 
[K] 
(2) 
 
 
Exhaust mass flow 
rate 
Sensor 
[kg/s] 
(2) 
 
 
Exhaust mass flow 
rate 
ECU 
[kg/s] 
(2) 
 
 
THC mass 
Analyser 
[g/s] 
(2) 
 
 
CH4 mass 
Analyser 
[g/s] 
(2) 
 
 
NMHC mass 
Analyser 
[g/s] 
(2) 



--- PAGE 716 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 716 of 762 
 
 
 
CO mass 
Analyser 
[g/s] 
(2) 
 
 
CO2 mass 
Analyser 
[g/s] 
(2) 
 
 
NOX mass 
Analyser 
[g/s] 
(2) 
 
 
NO mass 
Analyser 
[g/s] 
(2) 
 
 
NO2 mass 
Analyser 
[g/s] 
(2) 
 
 
O2 mass 
Analyser 
[g/s] 
(2) 
 
 
PN 
Analyser 
[#/s] 
(2) 
 
 
Gas measurement 
active 
PEMS 
[active (1); 
inactive (0);  
error (>1)] 
(2) 
 
 
Engine speed 
ECU 
[rpm] 
(2) 
 
 
Engine torque 
ECU 
[Nm] 
(2) 
 
 
Torque 
at driven 
axle 
Sensor 
[Nm] 
(2) 
 
 
Wheel 
rotational 
speed 
Sensor 
[rad/s] 
(2) 
 
 
Fuel rate 
ECU 
[g/s] 
(2) 
 
 
Engine 
fuel flow 
ECU 
[g/s] 
(2) 
 
 
Engine 
intake air 
flow 
ECU 
[g/s] 
(2) 
 
 
Coolant 
ECU 
[K] 
(2) 
 
 
temperature 
 
 
 
 
 
Oil temperature 
ECU 
[K] 
(2) 
 
 
Regeneration status 
ECU 
– 
(2) 
 
 
Pedal position 
ECU 
[%] 
(2) 
 
 
Vehicle status 
ECU 
[error (1); 
normal  (0)] 
(2) 
 
 
Per cent torque 
ECU 
[%] 
(2) 
 
 
Per 
cent 
friction 
torque 
ECU 
[%] 
(2) 



--- PAGE 717 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 717 of 762 
 
 
 
State of charge 
ECU 
[%] 
(2) 
 
 
….
(4) 
….
(4) 
….
(4) 
…
(2)(4) 
 
(1) 
This column can be omitted if the parameter source is part of the label in 
Column 198. 
 
(2) Actual values to be included from line 201 onward until the end of data 
 
(3) To be determined by at least one method 
 
(4) Additional parameters may be added to characterise vehicle and test 
conditions. 
4.2 
Intermediate and Final Results 
4.2.1. 
Intermediate Results 
 
Table 3 
Reporting File #1–- Summary Parameters of Intermediate Results 
 
Line 
Parameter 
Description/ Unit 
 
1 
Total trip distance 
[km] 
 
2 
Total trip duration 
[h:min:s] 
 
3 
Total stop time 
[min:s] 
 
4 
Trip average speed 
[km/h] 
 
5 
Trip maximum speed 
[km/h] 
 
6 
Altitude at start point of the trip 
[m above sea level] 
 
7 
Altitude at end point of the trip 
[m above sea level] 
 
8 
Cumulative elevation gain during the trip [m/100km ] 
 
9 
Average THC concentration 
[ppm] 
 
10 
Average CH4 concentration 
[ppm] 
 
11 
Average NMHC concentration 
[ppm] 
 
12 
Average CO concentration 
[ppm] 
 
13 
Average CO2 concentration 
[ppm] 
 
14 
Average NOX concentration 
[ppm] 



--- PAGE 718 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 718 of 762 
 
 
15 
Average PN concentration 
[#/m3] 
 
16 
Average exhaust mass flow rate 
[kg/s] 
 
17 
Average exhaust temperature 
[K] 
 
18 
Maximum exhaust temperature 
[K] 
 
19 
Cumulated THC mass 
[g] 
 
20 
Cumulated CH4 mass 
[g] 
 
21 
Cumulated NMHC mass 
[g] 
 
22 
Cumulated CO mass 
[g] 
 
23 
Cumulated CO2 mass 
[g] 
 
24 
Cumulated NOX mass 
[g] 
 
25 
Cumulated PN 
[#] 
 
26 
Total trip THC emissions 
[mg/km] 
 
27 
Total trip CH4 emissions 
[mg/km] 
 
28 
Total trip NMHC emissions 
[mg/km] 
 
29 
Total trip CO emissions 
[mg/km] 
 
30 
Total trip CO2 emissions 
[g/km] 
 
31 
Total trip NOX emissions 
[mg/km] 
 
32 
Total trip PN emissions 
[#/km] 
 
33 
Distance urban part 
[km] 
 
34 
Duration urban part 
[h:min:s] 
 
35 
Stop time urban part 
[min:s] 
 
36 
Average speed urban part 
[km/h] 
 
37 
Maximum speed urban part 
[km/h] 
 
38 
(v · apos)k_[95], k = urban 
[m2/s3] 
 
39 
RPAk,k = urban 
[m/s2] 
 
40 
Cumulative urban elevation gain 
[m/100km 



--- PAGE 719 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 719 of 762 
 
 
41 
Average urban THC concentration 
[ppm] 
 
42 
Average urban CH4 concentration 
[ppm] 
 
43 
Average urban NMHC concentration 
[ppm] 
 
44 
Average urban CO concentration 
[ppm] 
 
45 
Average urban CO2 concentration 
[ppm] 
 
46 
Average urban NOx concentration 
[ppm] 
 
47 
Average urban PN concentration 
[#/m3] 
 
48 
Average urban exhaust mass flow rate 
[kg/s] 
 
49 
Average urban exhaust temperature 
[K] 
 
50 
Maximum urban exhaust temperature 
[K] 
 
51 
Cumulated urban THC mass 
[g] 
 
52 
Cumulated urban CH4 mass 
[g] 
 
53 
Cumulated urban NMHC mass 
[g] 
 
54 
Cumulated urban CO mass 
[g] 
 
55 
Cumulated urban CO2 mass 
[g] 
 
56 
Cumulated urban NOx mass 
[g] 
 
57 
Cumulated urban PN 
[#] 
 
58 
Urban THC emissions 
[mg/km]. 
 
59 
Urban CH4 emissions 
[mg/km] 
 
60 
Urban NMHC emissions 
[mg/km] 
 
61 
Urban CO emissions 
[mg/km] 
 
62 
Urban CO2 emissions 
[g/km] 
 
63 
Urban NOx emissions 
[mg/km] 
 
64 
Urban PN emissions 
[#/km] 
 
65 
Distance rural part 
[km] 
 
66 
Duration rural part 
[h:min:s] 



--- PAGE 720 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 720 of 762 
 
 
67 
Stop time rural part 
[min:s] 
 
68 
Average speed rural part 
[km/h] 
 
69 
Maximum speed rural part 
[km/h] 
 
70 
(v · apos)k_[95], k = rural 
[m2/s3] 
 
71 
RPAk,k = rural 
[m/s2] 
 
72 
Average rural THC concentration 
[ppm] 
 
73 
Average rural CH4 concentration 
[ppm] 
 
74 
Average rural NMHC concentration 
[ppm] 
 
75 
Average rural CO concentration 
[ppm] 
 
76 
Average rural CO2 concentration 
[ppm] 
 
77 
Average rural NOX concentration 
[ppm] 
 
78 
Average rural PN concentration 
[#/m3] 
 
79 
Average rural exhaust mass flow rate 
[kg/s] 
 
80 
Average rural exhaust temperature 
[K] 
 
81 
Maximum rural exhaust temperature 
[K] 
 
82 
Cumulated rural THC mass 
[g] 
 
83 
Cumulated rural CH4 mass 
[g] 
 
84 
Cumulated rural NMHC mass 
[g] 
 
85 
Cumulated rural CO mass 
[g] 
 
86 
Cumulated rural CO2 mass 
[g] 
 
87 
Cumulated rural NOX mass 
[g] 
 
88 
Cumulated rural PN 
[#] 
 
89 
Rural THC emissions 
[mg/km] 
 
90 
Rural CH4 emissions 
[mg/km] 
 
91 
Rural NMHC emissions 
[mg/km] 
 
92 
Rural CO emissions 
[mg/km] 



--- PAGE 721 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 721 of 762 
 
 
93 
Rural CO2 emissions 
[g/km] 
 
94 
Rural NOX emissions 
[mg/km] 
 
95 
Rural PN emissions 
[#/km] 
 
96 
Distance motorway part 
[km] 
 
97 
Duration motorway part 
[h:min:s] 
 
98 
Stop time motorway part 
[min:s] 
 
99 
Average speed motorway part 
[km/h] 
 
100 
Maximum speed motorway part 
[km/h] 
 
101 
(v · apos)k_[95], k = motorway 
[m2/s3] 
 
102 
RPAk,k = motorway 
[m/s2] 
 
103 
Average motorway THC concentration 
[ppm] 
 
104 
Average motorway CH4 concentration 
[ppm] 
 
105 
Average motorway NMHC 
concentration 
[ppm] 
 
106 
Average motorway CO concentration 
[ppm] 
 
107 
Average motorway CO2 concentration 
[ppm] 
 
108 
Average motorway NOX concentration 
[ppm] 
 
109 
Average motorway PN concentration 
[#/m3] 
 
110 
Average motorway exhaust mass flow 
rate 
[kg/s] 
 
111 
Average motorway exhaust temperature 
[K] 
 
112 
Maximum motorway exhaust 
temperature 
[K] 
 
113 
Cumulated motorway THC mass 
[g] 
 
114 
Cumulated motorway CH4 mass 
[g] 
 
115 
Cumulated motorway NMHC mass 
[g] 
 
116 
Cumulated motorway CO mass 
[g] 
 
117 
Cumulated motorway CO2 mass 
[g] 



--- PAGE 722 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 722 of 762 
 
 
118 
Cumulated motorway NOX mass 
[g] 
 
119 
Cumulated motorway PN 
[#] 
 
120 
Motorway THC emissions 
[mg/km] 
 
121 
Motorway CH4 emissions 
[mg/km] 
 
122 
Motorway NMHC emissions 
[mg/km] 
 
123 
Motorway CO emissions 
[mg/km] 
 
124 
Motorway CO2 emissions 
[g/km] 
 
125 
Motorway NOX emissions 
[mg/km] 
 
126 
Motorway PN emissions 
[#/km] 
 
…..
(1) 
…..
(1) 
…..(1) 
 
(1) 
Additional Parameters may be added to characterise additional elements. 
4.2.2. 
Results of the Data Evaluation 
 
Table 4 
 
Header of Reporting File #2 – Calculation Settings of the Data Evaluation 
Method According to Appendix 5 of this Annex 
 
Line 
Parameter 
Unit 
 
1 
Reference CO2 mass 
[g] 
 
2 
Coefficient a1 of the CO2 characteristic 
curve 
 
 
3 
Coefficient b1 of the CO2 characteristic 
curve 
 
 
4 
Coefficient a2 of the CO2 characteristic 
curve 
 
 
5 
Coefficient b2 of the CO2 characteristic 
curve 
 
 
6 
Reserved 
 
 
7 
Reserved 
 
 
8 
Reserved 
 
 
9 
tol1H - upper tolerance for the vehicle 
[%] 



--- PAGE 723 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 723 of 762 
 
CO2 characteristic curve 
 
10 
tol1L - lower tolerance for the vehicle 
CO2 characteristic curve 
[%] 
 
11 
Calculation software and version 
(e.g. EMROA D 5.8) 
 
…..
(1) 
…..
(1) 
…..
(1) 
 
(1) Parameters may be added until line 95 to characterize additional calculation 
settings 
 
Table 5A 
Header of reporting file #2 - Results of the Data Evaluation Method 
According to Appendix 5 of this Annex 
 
Line 
Parameter 
Unit 
 
101 
Number of windows 
 
 
102 
Number of urban windows 
 
 
103 
Number of rural windows 
 
 
104 
Number of motorway windows 
 
 
105 
Share of urban windows 
[%] 
 
106 
Share of rural windows 
[%] 
 
107 
Share of motorway windows 
[%] 
 
108 
Share of urban windows in the total 
number of windows greater than 10% 
(1 = Yes, 
0 = No) 
 
109 
Share of rural windows in the total 
number of windows greater than 10% 
(1 = Yes, 
0 = No) 
 
110 
Share of motorway windows in the total 
number of windows greater than 10% 
(1 = Yes, 
0 = No) 
 
111 
Number of windows within ± tol1 
 
 
112 
Number of urban windows within ± tol1 
 
 
113 
Number of rural windows within ± tol1 
 
 
114 
Number of motorway windows within ± 
 



--- PAGE 724 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 724 of 762 
 
tol1 
 
115 
Number of windows within ± tol2 
 
 
116 
Number of urban windows within ± tol2 
 
 
117 
Number of rural windows within ± tol2 
 
 
118 
Number of motorway windows within ± 
tol2 
 
 
119 
Share of urban windows within ± tol1 
[%] 
 
120 
Share of rural windows within ± tol1 
[%] 
 
121 
Share of motorway windows within ± 
tol1 
[%] 
 
122 
Share of urban windows within ± tol1 
greater than 50% 
(1=Yes, 0=No) 
 
123 
Share of rural windows within ± tol1 
greater than 50% 
(1=Yes, 0=No) 
 
124 
Share of motorway windows within ± 
tol1 greater than 50% 
(1=Yes, 0=No) 
 
125 
Reserved 
 
 
126 
Reserved 
 
 
127 
Reserved 
 
 
128 
Reserved 
 
 
129 
Weighted THC emissions of urban 
windows 
[mg/km] 
 
130 
Weighted THC emissions of rural 
windows 
[mg/km] 
 
131 
Weighted THC emissions of motorway 
windows 
[mg/km] 
 
132 
Weighted CH4 emissions of urban 
windows 
[mg/km] 
 
133 
Weighted CH4 emissions of rural 
windows 
[mg/km] 
 
134 
Weighted CH4 emissions of motorway 
windows 
[mg/km] 



--- PAGE 725 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 725 of 762 
 
 
135 
Weighted NMHC emissions of urban 
windows 
[mg/km] 
 
136 
Weighted NMHC emissions of rural 
windows 
[mg/km] 
 
137 
Weighted NMHC emissions of 
motorway windows 
[mg/km] 
 
138 
Weighted CO emissions of urban 
windows 
[mg/km] 
 
139 
Weighted CO emissions of rural 
windows 
[mg/km] 
 
140 
Weighted CO emissions of motorway 
windows 
[mg/km] 
 
141 
Weighted NOX emissions of urban 
windows 
[mg/km] 
 
142 
Weighted NOX emissions of rural 
windows 
[mg/km] 
 
143 
Weighted NOX emissions of motorway 
windows 
[mg/km] 
 
144 
Weighted NO emissions of urban 
windows 
[mg/km] 
 
145 
Weighted NO emissions of rural 
windows 
[mg/km] 
 
146 
Weighted NO emissions of motorway 
windows 
[mg/km] 
 
147 
Weighted NO2 emissions of urban 
windows 
[mg/km] 
 
148 
Weighted NO2 emissions of rural 
windows 
[mg/km] 
 
149 
Weighted NO2 emissions of motorway 
windows 
[mg/km] 
 
150 
Weighted PN emissions of urban 
windows 
[#/km] 
 
151 
Weighted PN emissions of rural 
windows 
[#/km] 
 
152 
Weighted PN emissions of motorway 
[#/km] 



--- PAGE 726 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 726 of 762 
 
windows 
 
…
(1) 
…..
(1) 
 
 
(1)Additional parameters may be added until line 195 
 
Table 5B 
Header of Reporting File #2 – Final Emission Results According to Appendix 
5 of this Annex 
 
Line 
Parameter 
Unit 
 
201 
Total trip – THC Emissions 
[mg/km] 
 
202 
Total trip – CH4 Emissions 
[mg/km] 
 
203 
Total trip – NMHC Emissions 
[mg/km] 
 
204 
Total trip – CO Emissions 
[mg/km] 
 
205 
Total trip – NOX Emissions 
[mg/km] 
 
206 
Total trip – PN Emissions 
[#/km] 
 
…
(1) 
…..
(1) 
…..
(1) 
 
(1) 
 Additional parameters may be added 
 
Table 6 
Body of Reporting File #2 – Detailed Results of the Data Evaluation Method 
According to Appendix 5 of this Annex; the Rows and Columns of this Table 
shall be Transposed in the Body of the Data Reporting File 
 
Line 
498 
499 
500 
501 
 
 
Window Start 
Time 
 
[s] 
(1) 
 
 
Window End 
Time 
 
[s] 
(1) 
 
 
Window 
Duration 
 
[s] 
(1) 
 
 
Window 
Distance 
Source 
(1=GNSS, 
2=ECU, 
3=Sensor) 
[km] 
(1) 



--- PAGE 727 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 727 of 762 
 
 
 
Window THC 
emissions 
 
[g] 
(1) 
 
 
Window CH4 
emissions 
 
[g] 
(1) 
 
 
Window 
NMHC 
emissions 
 
[g] 
(1) 
 
 
Window CO 
emissions 
 
[g] 
(1) 
 
 
Window CO2 
emissions 
 
[g] 
(1) 
 
 
Window NOX 
emissions 
 
[g] 
(1) 
 
 
Window NO 
emissions 
 
[g] 
(1) 
 
 
Window NO2 
emissions 
 
[g] 
(1) 
 
 
Window O2 
emissions 
 
[g] 
(1) 
 
 
Window PN 
emissions 
 
[#] 
(1) 
 
 
Window THC 
emissions 
 
[mg/km] 
(1) 
 
 
Window CH4 
emissions 
 
[mg/km] 
(1) 
 
 
Window 
NMHC 
emissions 
 
[mg/km] 
(1) 
 
 
Window CO 
emissions 
 
[mg/km] 
(1) 
 
 
Window CO2 
emissions 
 
[g/km] 
(1) 
 
 
Window NOX 
emissions 
 
[mg/km] 
(1) 
 
 
Window NO 
 
[mg/km] 
(1) 



--- PAGE 728 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 728 of 762 
 
emissions 
 
 
Window NO2 
emissions 
 
[mg/km] 
(1) 
 
 
Window O2 
emissions 
 
[mg/km] 
(1) 
 
 
Window PN 
emissions 
 
[#/km] 
(1) 
 
 
Window 
distance to CO2 
characteristic 
curve hj 
 
[%] 
(1) 
 
 
Window 
weighing factor 
wj 
 
[-] 
(1) 
 
 
Window 
Average 
Vehicle Speed 
Source 
(1=GNSS, 
2=ECU, 
[km/h] 
(1) 
 
 
 
3=Sensor) 
 
 
 
 
…..(2) 
…..(2) 
…..(2) 
…..(1)(2) 
 
(1) Actual values to be included from line 501 to line onward until the end of data. 
 
(2) 
Additional parameters may be added to characterise window characteristics. 
4.3 
Vehicle and Engine Description 
 
The manufacturer shall provide the vehicle and engine description in accordance 
with AIS-007, as amended form time to time. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 729 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 729 of 762 
 
 
Annex C6 - APPENDIX 9 
MANUFACTURER'S DECLERATION OF COMPLIANCE 
Manufacturer's   certificate   of   compliance   with the  Real  Driving Emissions 
requirements 
(Manufacturer): 
........................................................................................... 
(Address 
of the 
Manufacturer): 
........................................................................................... 
Certifies that 
CONTENT TO BE ADDED 
Done at [ ................................................................................................. (Place)] 
On[ ...................................................................................................(Date)] 
............................................................................................. 
(Stamp and signature of the manufacturer's representative) 
Annex: 
- List of vehicle types to which this certificate applies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 730 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 730 of 762 
 
ANNEX C6 - APPENDIX 10 
CALCULATION OF THE FINAL RDE EMISSIONS RESULTS 
1.0 
Introduction 
 
This annex describes the procedure to calculate the final criteria emissions for the 
complete and urban part of an RDE. 
2.0 
Symbols, Parameters and Units 
 
Index (k) refers to the category (t=total, u=urban) 
 
𝐼𝐶𝑘 
is the distance share of usage of the internal combustion engine for an 
OVC-HEV over the RDE trip. 
𝑑𝐼𝐶𝐸,𝑘 
is the distance driven [km], with the internal combustion engine on for 
an OVC-HEV over the RDE trip 
 
𝑑𝐸𝑉,𝑘 
is the distance driven [km], with the internal combustion engine off for 
an OVC-HEV over the RDE trip 
 
𝑀𝑅𝐷𝐸,𝑘          is   the  final   RDE    distance    specific    mass   of gaseous pollutants 
[mg/km] or particle number [#/km] 
 
𝑚𝑅𝐷𝐸,𝑘          is    the    distance-specific   mass   of    gaseous    pollutant [mg/km] or 
particle number [#/km] emissions, emitted over the complete RDE trip 
and prior to any correction in accordance with this annex 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝑅𝐷𝐸,𝑘      is the distance-specific mass of CO2 [g/km], emitted over the RDE trip 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝑇𝐴,𝑘       is the distance-specific mass of CO2 [g/km], emitted over the applicable 
type approval cycle 
 
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝑇𝐴_𝐶𝑆,𝑘  is the distance-specific mass of CO2 [g/km], emitted over the applicable 
type approval cycle for an OVC-HEV vehicle tested in charge sustaining 
vehicle operation 
 
𝑟𝑘 
is the ratio between the CO2 emissions measured during the RDE test 
and the applicable type approval test. 
 
𝑅𝐹 𝑘 
is the result evaluation factor calculated for the RDE trip 
 
𝑅𝐹𝐿1 
is the first parameter of the function used to calculate the result 
evaluation factor 
 
𝑅𝐹𝐿2               is the second parameter of the function used to calculate the result 
evaluation factor 
3.0 
Calculation of the Intermediate RDE emissions results 



--- PAGE 731 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 731 of 762 
 
 
For the valid trips, the intermediate RDE results are calculated as follows for vehicles 
with ICE, NOVC-HEV and OVC-HEV. 
 
Any instantaneous emissions or exhaust flow measurements obtained while the 
combustion engine is deactivated, as defined in paragraph 3.6.3. of this Regulation, 
shall be set to zero. 
 
Any correction of the instantaneous criteria emissions for Extended conditions 
according to paragraph 8.1. and 10.5. and 10.6. of this Regulation shall be applied. 
 
For the complete RDE trip and for the urban part of the RDE trip (k=t=total, 
k=u=urban): 
 
𝑀𝑅𝐷𝐸,𝑘= 𝑚𝑅𝐷𝐸,𝑘× 𝑅𝐹𝑘 
 
The values of the parameter 𝑅𝐹𝐿1 and 𝑅𝐹𝐿2of the function used to calculate the result 
evaluation factors  shall be defined as mentioned below. 
RFL1 = 1.3; RFL2 = 1.5.  
 
Note: If required, the above parameters RFL1 & RFL2 may be reviewed in future. 
 
 
The RDE result evaluation factors 𝑅𝐹𝑘 (k=t=total, k=u=urban) shall be obtained 
using the functions laid down in paragraph 2.2. for vehicles with ICE and NOVC-
HEV, and in paragraph 2.3. for OVC-HEV. A graphical illustration of the method is 
provided in Figure A11/1 below, while the mathematical formulas are found in Table 
A11/1: 
 
Figure A11/1 
Function to calculate the result evaluation factor 
 
 
 
Table A11/1 
 
Result evaluation factors calculation 



--- PAGE 732 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 732 of 762 
 
 
When: 
Then the Result 
evaluation factor 
𝑹𝑭𝒌  is: 
Where: 
 
𝑟𝑘≤𝑅𝐹𝐿1 
𝑅𝐹𝑘= 1 
 
 
𝑅𝐹𝐿1 < 𝑟𝑘
≤𝑅𝐹𝐿2 
𝑅𝐹𝑘= 𝑎1𝑟𝑘+ 𝑏1 
𝑎1
=
𝑅𝐹𝐿2 −1
[𝑅𝐹𝐿2 × (𝑅𝐹𝐿1 −𝑅𝐹𝐿2)] 
 
𝑏1 = 1 −𝑎1𝑅𝐹𝐿1 
 
𝑟𝑘> 𝑅𝐹𝐿2 
𝑅𝐹𝑘= 1
𝑟𝑘
 
 
3.1. 
RDE result evaluation factor for vehicles with ICE and NOVC-HEV 
 
The value of the RDE result evaluation factor depends on the ratio r_k between the 
distance specific CO2 emissions measured during the RDE test and the distance-
specific CO2 emitted by the vehicle over the PEMS validation test conducted on this 
vehicle in accordance with the applicable type approval cycle. and including all 
appropriate corrections.  
 
For the urban emissions, the phases of the type approval selected as representative 
for urban operation i.e. Phase-1 of WLTP Cycle (Low Phase) 
 
The result evaluation factor rk (k=t=total, k=u=urban) shall be calculated as follows: 
 
𝑟𝑘=
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝑅𝐷𝐸,𝑘
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝑇𝐴,𝑘
 
3.2. 
RDE result evaluation factor for OVC-HEV 
 
The value of the RDE result evaluation factor depends on the ratio rk between the 
distance-specific CO2 emissions measured during the RDE test and the distance-
specific CO2 emitted by the vehicle over the applicable type approval test conducted 
in Charge Sustaining vehicle operation including all appropriate corrections. The 
ratio 𝑟𝑘 is corrected by a ratio 𝐼𝐶𝑇𝐴 (where *ICTA is 0.85) reflecting the respective 
usage of the internal combustion engine during the RDE trip and on the applicable 
type approval test, to be conducted in charge sustaining vehicle operation.  
*If required, the same may be reviewed in future. 
 
For either the urban or the total driving: 
 
𝑟𝑘= 𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝑅𝐷𝐸,𝑘
𝑀𝐶𝑂2,𝑇𝐴_𝐶𝑆,𝑡
× 𝐼𝐶𝑇𝐴
𝐼𝐶𝑘
 



--- PAGE 733 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 733 of 762 
 
 
where 𝐼𝐶𝑘 is the ratio of the distance driven either in urban or total trip with the 
combustion engine activated, divided by the total urban or total trip distance: 
 
𝐼𝐶𝑘=
𝑑𝐼𝐶𝐸,𝑘
𝑑𝐼𝐶𝐸,𝑘+ 𝑑𝐸𝑉,𝑘
 
 
 
 
Annex C7 - IN-SERVICE CONFORMITY METHODOLOGY 
1.0 
Introduction 
 
This annexure sets out the in-service conformity (ISC) requirements for checking 
compliance against the emission limits for tailpipe and evaporative emissions 
throughout the normal life of the vehicle up to five years or 100,000km, whichever 
is sooner. 
2.0 
Process Description 
 
 
Compliance Assessment  
START 
Vehicle Manufacturer and Test Agency complete vehicle 
approval for the new vehicle type. Test Agency grants Type-
Approval 
Manufacture & sales of approved vehicle type 
Vehicle Selection: Test Agency to carry out 
selection in consultation with Manufacturer 
Test Agency carries out in-service conformity procedure 
(vehicle type or family). Tests can be conducted at a Test 
Agency or witnessed by Test Agency at manufacturers test 
facility which is accredited by NABL as per ISO 17025 
Remedial Measures (if Needed) 
                                       Reporting  



--- PAGE 734 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 734 of 762 
 
 
Figure C7/1 
Illustration of the In-service Conformity Process 
 
3.0 
 ISC Family Definition 
 
 An ISC family shall be composed of the following vehicles: 
 
(a) 
For tailpipe emissions (Type I), the vehicles covered by the PEMS test 
family, as described in Appendix 7 of Annex C6, 
 
(b) 
For evaporative emissions (Type IV test), the vehicles included in the 
evaporative emission family, as described in Clause 6.6.3. of this Regulation. 
4. 
Information Gathering And Initial Risk Assessment 
 
As part of the information provided for the ISC checks, each manufacturer shall 
report to the Test Agency on emission-related warranty claims, and any emission-
related warranty repair works performed or recorded during servicing, in 
accordance with a format agreed between the Test Agency and the manufacturer 
at type approval. The information shall detail the frequency and nature of faults 
for emissions-related components and systems by ISC family. The reports shall 
be filed at least once a year for each vehicle ISC family for the duration of the 
period during which in-service conformity checks are to be performed as per 
Clause 9.2 of this regulation. 
5.0 
ISC Testing 
5.1 
 
The Test Agency shall perform ISC testing for tailpipe emissions comprising at 
least the Type I test for all ISC families. The Test Agency  may also perform RDE 
and Type IV tests for all or part of the ISC families. The Test Agency shall check 
all ISC families each year, as set out in Point 5.4. 
5.1.1 
Provided, In case of number of vehicles of family (classified as per 3.0) sold in 
India are less than 500 in a year, then such family/ families of specific fuel type 
shall be clubbed and one vehicle from the clubbed families shall be subjected to 
test for In Service Conformity. 
Provided that in case tested vehicle meets Type I limits without deterioration 
factor then all small volume ISC families are considered pass.  
Further If Type I test results obtained for any one of the pollutants exceed their 
respective Type I test limit values then test shall be continued as per clause 5.8 of 
Annex C7  with minimum sample size of three of same ISC family. In case of 
extended ISC, Vehicle of same family (as per 3.0) to be used for extended in use 
testing. Further in case of ISC failure each family separate ISC to be conducted 
and consequences of failure shall be applied to failed families only. 
 



--- PAGE 735 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 735 of 762 
 
5.2 
The emissions testing to be done at a Test Agency or tests can be conducted on 
manufacturer’s test facility which is accredited by NABL as per ISO 17025 
5.3. 
Types of Tests 
 
ISC testing shall only be performed on vehicles selected in accordance with 
Appendix 1. 
 ISC testing with the Type I test shall be performed in accordance with Annex B6 
of this regulation. 
ISC testing with the RDE tests shall be performed in accordance with Annex C6 
of this regulation and Type IV tests shall be performed in accordance with Annex 
C3 of this regulation  
5.4. 
Frequency and Scope of ISC Testing 
 
The time period between commencing two in-service conformity checks by the 
manufacturer for a given ISC family shall not exceed 24 months. 
 
Test agency shall perform the RDE tests on a minimum of 5% of the ISC families 
per manufacturer per ISC period or at least two ISC families per manufacturer per 
ISC period, whichever applicable.  
 
The Test Agency shall complete the statistical procedure for each ISC family it 
has started within 12 months. 
 
Based on maintenance repair history, OBD fault code history, ISC Type I test 
results, etc  if required Test Agency may decide to perform Type IV ISC test  in 
consultation with vehicle manufacturer.  
 
The above Type IV and RDE test requirement shall not apply to small volume 
ISC families.( Sales volume less than 500).  
5.5. 
Reserved 
5.6. 
Reserved. 
5.7. 
Selection of Vehicles for ISC Testing 
 
The information gathered shall be sufficiently comprehensive to ensure that in-
service performance can be assessed for vehicles that are properly maintained and 
used. The tables in Appendix 1 shall be used to decide whether the vehicle can be 
selected for the purposes of ISC testing. During the check against the tables in 
Appendix 1, some vehicles may be declared as faulty and not tested during ISC, 
when there is evidence that parts of the emission control system were damaged. 
 
The same vehicle may be used to perform and establish reports from more than 
one type of tests (Type I, RDE, Type IV) but only the first valid test of each type 
shall be taken into account for the statistical procedure. Considering challenges 
involved in sourcing of test vehicle, only for RDE  test, vehicle   may be selected 
in consultation with vehicle manufacturer.  



--- PAGE 736 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 736 of 762 
 
 
The sampling shall be drawn from at least two regions with substantially different 
vehicle operating conditions. Factors such as differences in fuels, ambient 
conditions, average road speeds, and urban/highway driving split shall be taken 
into consideration in the selection of the regions. 
 
The regions for sampling of vehicles shall be selected in consultation with the 
manufacturer. Vehicles may be selected from a region that is considered to be 
particularly representative. 
5.7.1 
General Requirements 
 
The vehicle shall belong to an ISC family as described in clause 3 and shall 
comply with the checks set out in the table in Appendix 1. The emissions testing 
may be done in a different geographical region from that where the vehicles have 
been selected. 
 
The vehicles selected shall be accompanied by a maintenance record which shows 
that the vehicle has been properly maintained and has been serviced in accordance 
with the manufacturer's recommendations with only original parts used for the 
replacement of emissions related parts. 
 
Vehicles exhibiting indications of abuse, improper use that could affect its 
emissions performance, tampering or conditions that may lead to unsafe operation 
shall be excluded from ISC. 
 
The vehicles shall not have undergone aerodynamic modifications that cannot be 
removed prior to testing. 
 
A vehicle shall be excluded from ISC testing if the information stored in the on-
board computer shows that the vehicle was operated after a fault code was 
displayed and a repair was not carried out in accordance with manufacturer 
specifications. 
 
A vehicle shall be excluded from ISC testing if the fuel from the vehicle tank does 
not meet the applicable standards or if there is evidence or record of fuelling with 
the wrong type of fuel. 
5.7.2 
Vehicle Examination and Maintenance 
 
Diagnosis of faults and any normal maintenance necessary in accordance with 
Appendix 1 shall be performed on vehicles accepted for testing, prior to or after 
proceeding with ISC testing. 
 
The following checks shall be carried out: OBD checks (performed before or after 
the test), visual checks for lit malfunction indicator lamps, checks on air filter, all 
drive belts, all fluid levels, radiator and fuel filler cap, all vacuum and fuel system 
hoses and electrical wiring related to the after-treatment system for integrity; 
checks on ignition, fuel metering and pollution control device components for 
maladjustments and/or tampering. 



--- PAGE 737 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 737 of 762 
 
 
If the vehicle is within 800km of a scheduled maintenance service, that service 
shall be performed. 
 
The window washer fluid shall be removed before the Type IV test and replaced 
with hot water. 
 
A fuel sample shall be collected and kept in accordance with the requirements of 
Annex C5 of  this regulation for further analysis in case of fail. 
 
All faults shall be recorded. When the fault is on the pollution control devices then 
the vehicle shall be reported as faulty and not be used further for testing, but the 
fault shall be taken into account for the purposes of the compliance assessment 
performed in accordance with clause  6.1 of this Annex. 
5.8 
Sample Size 
 
The number of sample lots shall be set on the basis of the annual sales volume of 
an in-service family, as described in the following table: 
 
Table C7/1 
Number of Sample Lots for ISC Testing with Type I Tests 
 
Sales Volume per Financial year of vehicles 
in the sampling period 
Number of sample lots (for Type 1 
tests) 
 
up to 100,000 
1 
 
100,001 to 200,000 
2 
 
above 200,000 
3 
 
Each sample lot shall include enough vehicle types, in order to ensure that at least 
20% of the total family sales are covered. When a family requires more than one 
sample lot to be tested, the vehicles in the second and third sample lots shall reflect 
different vehicle use conditions from those selected for the first sample. 
 
In case of number of vehicles of ISC family sold in India or imported to India are 
less than 500 in a financial year then such family need not be subjected to the 
above test if at least one model or its variants of family sold or imported by that 
manufacturer or importer or the case may be is subjected to such test at least once 
per In Service Conformity Cycle. 
 
Provided that, all the pollutants for Type I tests doesn’t exceed their respective 
Type I test limit value for that single model/ variant of that family is regarded as 
having passed. 
 
If Type I test results obtained for any one of the pollutants exceed their respective 
Type I test limit values then test shall be continued as per clause 5.8 of Annex C7  
with minimum sample size of three 
5.9 
Reserved 



--- PAGE 738 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 738 of 762 
 
5.10 
Statistical Procedure 
5.10.1 
General 
 
The verification of in-service conformity shall rely on a statistical method 
following the general principles of sequential sampling for inspection by 
attributes. The minimum sample size for a pass result is three vehicles, and the 
maximum cumulative sample size is ten vehicles for the Type I. For RDE and 
Type IV test minimum sample size for pass result is one vehicle. 
 
For the Type IV  tests a simplified method may be used, The test is considered 
pass 
if it meets the Type -IV limits in one sample In case the first sample does not pass, test 
will continue on three vehicles and shall be considered a fail if all three vehicles 
fail to pass the test. In cases where two out of three passed or failed, then Test 
Agency may decide to conduct further tests or proceed with accessing the 
compliance in accordance with clause 6.1 of this Annex. 
 
Test results shall not be multiplied by deterioration factors. 
 
For RDE test considered as passed when one sample RDE results are below NTE 
limit defined in clause 2.1.1 of Annex C5 of this Regulation. In case first sample 
does not pass, more vehicles to be tested for arriving at the decision threshold.    
 
ISC statistical procedure shall remain open until an outcome is reached when the 
statistical procedure arrives to a pass or fail decision for the sample in accordance 
clause 5.10.5 of this Annex.  
 
However, if an outcome is not reached within 12 months of the start of statistical 
procedure, the Test Agency shall infrom the Nodal agency. 
 
Pooling of ISC Results 
5.10.2 
Test results from two or more accredited laboratories will be pooled for the 
purposes of a common statistical procedure 
5.10.3 
Pass/Fail/Invalid Outcome for a Single Test 
 
An ISC emissions test shall be considered as 'passed'  when the emissions results 
are equal or below the emission limit set out in applicable Gazette Notification 
for that type of test. 
 
An emissions test shall be considered as 'failed' for one or more pollutants when 
the emissions result is greater than the corresponding emission limit for that type 
of test. Each failed test result shall increase the 'f' count (see Clause 5.10.5.) by 1 
for that statistical instance. 
 
An ISC emissions test shall be considered invalid if it does not respect the test 
requirements referred to in clause 5.3 of this Annex. Invalid test results shall be 
excluded from the statistical procedure. 



--- PAGE 739 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 739 of 762 
 
 
The Test Agency shall incorporate all valid emission test results to the relevant 
statistical procedure until a 'sample fail' or a 'sample pass' outcome is reached in 
accordance with clause  5.10.5 of this Annex. 
5.10.4 
Treatment of Outliers 
 
The presence of outlying results in the sample statistical procedure may lead to a 
'fail' outcome in accordance with the procedures described below: 
 
Outliers shall be categorised as intermediate or extreme. 
 
An emissions test result shall be considered as an intermediate outlier if it is equal 
or greater than 1.3 times the applicable emission limit. The presence of two such 
outliers in a sample shall lead to a fail of the sample. 
 
An emissions result shall be considered as an extreme outlier if it is equal or 
greater than 2.5 times the applicable emission limit. The presence of one such 
outlier in a sample shall lead to a fail of the sample. In such case, the plate number 
of the vehicle shall be communicated to the manufacturer.  
5.10.5 
Pass/Fail Decision for a Sample 
 
For the purposes of deciding on a pass/fail result for the sample, 'p' is the count of 
passed results, and 'f' is the count of failed results. Each passed test result shall 
increase the 'p' count by 1 and each failed test result shall increase the 'f' count by 
1 for the relevant open statistical procedure. 
 
Upon the incorporation of valid emission test results to an open instance of the 
statistical procedure, the type Test Agency shall perform the following actions: 
 
– Update the cumulative sample size 'n' for that instance to reflect the total 
number of valid emissions tests incorporated to the statistical procedure; 
 
– Following an evaluation of the results, update the count of passed results 'p' 
and the count of failed results 'f'; 
 
 
– Compute the number of extreme and intermediate outliers in the sample in 
accordance with Clause 5.10.4 of this Annex. 
 
– Check whether a decision is reached with the procedure described below. 
 
The decision depends on the cumulative sample size 'n', the passed and failed 
result counts 'p' and 'f', as well as the number of intermediate and/or extreme 
outliers in the sample. For the decision on a pass/fail of an ISC sample the Test 
Agency shall use the decision chart in Figure C7/2. The charts indicate the 
decision to be taken for a given cumulative sample size 'n' and failed count result 
'f'. 
 
Two decisions are possible for a statistical procedure for a given combination of 
vehicle family, emissions test type and pollutant: 



--- PAGE 740 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 740 of 762 
 
 
'Sample pass' outcome shall be reached when the applicable decision chart from 
Figure C7/2 of this Annex gives a "PASS" outcome for the current cumulative 
sample size 'n' and the count of failed results 'f'. 
 
'Sample fail' decision shall be reached when, for a given cumulative sample size 
'n', when at least one of the following conditions is fulfilled: 
 
– 
The applicable decision chart from Figure C7/2 of this Annex gives a "FAIL" 
decision for the current cumulative sample size 'n' and the count of failed 
results 'f'. 
 
– 
There are two intermediate outliers; 
 
– 
There is one extreme outlier. 
 
If no decision is reached, the statistical procedure shall remain open and further 
results shall be incorporated into it until a decision is reached or the procedure is 
closed in accordance with clause 5.10.1 of this Annex. 
 
 
 
Figure C7/1 
Decision Chart for the Statistical Procedure 
(where 'UND' means Undecided) 
5.10.6 
Reserved 
6.0 
Compliance Assessment 
6.1. 
After completion of the ISC testing for the sample as referred to in Clause  5.10.5 
of this Annex, the Test Agency shall start detailed investigations with the 
manufacturer in order to decide whether the ISC family (or part of it) complies 
with the ISC rules and whether it requires remedial measures 



--- PAGE 741 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 741 of 762 
 
6.2. 
Reserved 
6.3. 
Test Agency may ask Manufacturer to extend the investigations to vehicles in 
service of the same manufacturer belonging to other ISC families which are likely 
to be affected by the same defects. 
6.4. 
The detailed investigation shall take no more than 60 working days after the start 
of the investigation by the Test Agency. The Test Agency may conduct additional 
ISC tests designed to determine why vehicles have failed during the original ISC 
tests. The additional tests shall be conducted under similar conditions as the 
original ISC failed tests. 
 
Upon the request of the Test Agency, the manufacturer shall provide additional 
information, showing in particular the possible cause of the failures, which parts 
of the family might be affected, whether other families might be affected, or why 
the problem which caused the failure at the original ISC tests is not related to in-
service conformity, if applicable. The manufacturer shall be given the opportunity 
to prove that the in-service conformity provisions have been complied with. 
6.5 
Within the deadline set out in Clause 6.3 of this Annex, the Test Agency shall 
take a decision on the compliance and the need to apply remedial measures for 
the ISC family covered by the detailed investigations and shall notify it to the 
manufacturer. 
7.0 
Remedial Measures 
7.1 
The manufacturer shall establish a plan of remedial measures and submit it to the 
Test Agency within 45 working days of the notification referred to in clause 6.4 
of this Annex. That period may be extended by up to an additional 30 working 
days where the manufacturer demonstrates to the Test Agency that further time is 
required to investigate the non-compliance. 
7.2 
The remedial measures required by the Test Agency shall include reasonably 
designed and necessary tests on components and vehicles in order to demonstrate 
the effectiveness and durability of the remedial measures. 
7.3 
The manufacturer shall assign a unique identifying name or number to the plan of 
remedial measures. The plan of remedial measures shall include at least the 
following: 
 
(a) A description of each vehicle emission type included in the plan of remedial 
measures; 
 
(b) A description of the specific modifications, alterations, repairs, corrections, 
adjustments or other changes to be made to bring the vehicles into conformity 
including a brief summary of the data and technical studies which support 
the decision of the manufacturer as to the particular remedial measures to be 
taken; 
 
(c) A description of the method by which the manufacturer will inform the 
vehicle owners of the planned remedial measures; 



--- PAGE 742 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 742 of 762 
 
 
(d) A description of the proper maintenance or use, if any, which the 
manufacturer stipulates as a condition of eligibility for repair under the plan 
of remedial measures, and an explanation of the need for such condition; 
 
(e) A description of the procedure to be followed by vehicle owners to obtain 
correction of the non-conformity; that description shall include a date after 
which the remedial measures shall be taken, the estimated time for the 
workshop to perform the repairs and where they can be done; 
 
(f) An example of the information transmitted to the vehicle owner; 
 
(g) A brief description of the system which the manufacturer uses to assure an 
adequate supply of component or systems for fulfilling the remedial action, 
including information on when an adequate supply of the components, 
software or systems needed to initiate the application of remedial measures 
will be available; 
 
(h) An example of all instructions to be sent to the repair shops which will 
perform the repair; 
 
(i) A description of the impact of the proposed remedial measures on the 
emissions, fuel consumption, driveability, and safety of each vehicle 
emission type, covered by the plan of remedial measures, including 
supporting data and technical studies; 
 
(j) Where the plan of remedial measures includes a recall, a description of the 
method for recording the repair shall be submitted to the Test Agency. If a 
label is used, an example of it shall also be submitted. 
 
For the purposes of Point (d), the manufacturer may not impose maintenance or 
use conditions which are not demonstrably related to the non-conformity and the 
remedial measures. 
7.4 
The repair shall be done expediently, within a reasonable time after the vehicle is 
received by the manufacturer for repair. Within 15 working days of receiving the 
proposed plan of remedial measures, the Test Agency shall approve it or require 
a new plan in accordance with Point 7.5. 
7.5 
When the Test Agency does not approve the plan of remedial measures, the 
manufacturer shall develop a new plan and submit it to the Test Agency within 20 
working days of notification of the decision of the Test Agency. 
7.6 
If the Test Agency does not approve the second plan submitted by the 
manufacturer, it shall take all appropriate measures to restore conformity, 
including withdrawal of type approval where necessary. 
7.7 
The Test Agency shall notify its decision to Nodal Agency. 
7.8 
The remedial measures shall apply to all vehicles in the ISC family (or other 
relevant families identified by the manufacturer in accordance with clause 6.2 of 



--- PAGE 743 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 743 of 762 
 
this Annex.) that are likely to be affected by the same defect. The Test Agency 
shall decide if it is necessary to amend the type approval. 
7.9 
The manufacturer is responsible for the execution of the approved plan of 
remedial measures and for keeping a record of every vehicle removed from the 
market or recalled and repaired and the workshop which performed the repair. 
7.10 
The manufacturer shall keep a copy of the communication with the customers of 
affected vehicles related to the plan of remedial measures. The manufacturer shall 
also maintain a record of the recall campaign, including the total number of 
vehicles affected and the total number of vehicles already recalled, along with an 
explanation of any delays in the application of the remedial measures. The 
manufacturer shall provide that record of the recall campaign to the Test Agency 
and Nodal Agency every two months. 
7.11 
Test/Nodal Agency shall take measures to ensure that the approved plan of 
remedial measures is applied within two years to at least 90% of affected vehicles. 
7.12 
The repair and modification or addition of new equipment shall be recorded in a 
certificate provided to the vehicle owner, which shall include the number of the 
remedial campaign. 
 
For reporting recall due to non-compliance and investigations therein with regard 
to ISC,  manufacturer shall follow guidelines of GSR-173(E ), dt. 11th March 2021 
with applicable CMV rules as amended from time to time. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 744 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 744 of 762 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX 1 
CRITERIA FOR VEHICLE SELECTION AND FAILED VEHICLES DECISION 
Selection of Vehicles for In Service Conformity Emissions Testing       
Confidential 
 
Date: 
 
 
x 
 
Name of 
investigator: 
 
 
x 
 
Location of test: 
 
 
x 
 
City of registration  
 
x 
 
Vehicle Characteristics 
 
 
                                        
  
 
 
x = Exclusion 
Criteria   
X = Checked 
and reported    
Confidential 
1 
Registration plate 
number: 
 
x 
x 
2 
Mileage: 
The vehicle must 
have between 
15,000km 
(or 30,000km for 
testing evaporative 
emissions) and 
 
x 
 
 



--- PAGE 745 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 745 of 762 
 
100,000km 
3 
Date of first 
registration: 
The vehicle must be 
between 6 months (or 
12 months for testing 
evaporative 
emissions) and 5 
years old 
 
x 
 
 
4 
VIN: 
 
x 
 
5 
Emission class and 
character: 
 
x 
 
6 
City of registration: 
x 
x 
 
7 
Model: 
 
x 
 
8 
Engine code: 
 
x 
 
9 
Engine volume (l): 
 
x 
 
10 
Engine power (kW): 
 
x 
 
11 
Gearbox type 
(auto/manual): 
 
x 
 
12 
Drive axle 
(FWD/AWD/RWD): 
 
x 
 
13 
Tyre size (front and 
rear if different): 
 
x 
 
14 
Is the vehicle 
involved in a recall 
or service 
campaign? If yes: 
Which one? Has the 
campaign repairs 
already been done? 
The repairs must have 
been done 
 
x 
 
x 
 
Vehicle Owner Interview 
(the owner will only be asked the main questions and shall have no knowledge of the 
implications of the replies) 



--- PAGE 746 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 746 of 762 
 
 
x = Exclusion 
Criteria   
X = Checked 
and reported   
Confidential 
1 
Name of the owner  
 
 
x 
2 
Contact 
(address/telephone)  
 
 
x 
3 
How many owners 
did the vehicle have? 
 
x 
 
4 
Did the odometer 
not work? 
If yes, the vehicle 
cannot be selected. 
x 
 
 
5 
Was the vehicle used 
for one of the 
following? 
 
 
 
6 
As car used in show-
rooms? 
 
x 
 
7 
 As a taxi?  
 
x 
 
8 
As delivery vehicle? 
 
x 
 
9 
 For racing/motor 
sports? 
x 
 
 
10 
As a rental car? 
 
x 
 
11 
Has the vehicle 
carried heavy loads 
over the 
specifications of the 
manufacturer? 
If yes, the vehicle 
cannot be selected. 
x 
 
 
12 
Have there been 
major engine or 
vehicle repairs? 
 
x 
 
13 
Have there been 
unauthorised major 
engine or vehicle 
repairs? 
If yes, the vehicle 
 
x 
 
 



--- PAGE 747 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 747 of 762 
 
cannot be selected. 
14 
Has there been a 
power 
increase/tuning? 
If yes, the vehicle 
cannot be selected. 
x 
 
 
15 
Was any part of the 
emissions after-
treatment and/or the 
fuel system 
replaced? Were 
original parts used? 
If original parts were 
not used, the vehicle 
cannot be selected. 
x 
x 
 
16 
Was any part of 
the emissions after-
treatment system 
permanently 
removed? 
If yes, the vehicle 
cannot be selected 
x 
 
 
17 
Were there any 
unauthorised 
devices installed 
(Urea killer, 
emulator, etc)? 
If yes, the vehicle 
cannot be selected 
x 
 
 
18 
Was 
the 
vehicle 
involved in a serious 
accident? Provide a 
list of damage and 
repairs 
done 
afterwards 
 
x 
 
19 
Has the car been 
used with a wrong 
fuel 
type 
(i.e. 
gasoline instead of 
diesel) in the past? 
Has the car been 
used 
with 
non-
x 
 
 



--- PAGE 748 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 748 of 762 
 
commercially 
available fuel ?If yes, 
the vehicle cannot be 
selected. 
20 
Did you use air-
fresher, 
cockpit-
spray, brake cleaner 
or 
other 
high 
hydrocarbon 
emission 
source 
around the vehicle 
during 
the 
last 
month? 
If yes, the vehicle 
cannot be selected for 
evaporative testing. 
x 
 
 
21 
Was there a gasoline 
spill in the inside or 
outside  of  the  
vehicle  during  the  
last 3 months? 
If yes, the vehicle 
cannot be selected for 
evaporative testing. 
x 
 
 
22 
Did anyone smoke 
in the car during 
the last 12 months? 
If yes, the vehicle 
cannot be selected 
for evaporative 
testing 
x 
 
 
23 
Did 
you 
apply 
corrosion protection, 
stickers, under seal 
protection, on any 
other 
potential 
sources of volatile 
compounds to the 
car? 
If yes, the vehicle 
cannot be selected for 
evaporative testing 
x 
 
 



--- PAGE 749 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 749 of 762 
 
24 
Was the car 
repainted? 
If yes, the vehicle 
cannot be selected 
for evaporative 
testing 
 
x 
 
 
25 
Where do you use 
your vehicle more 
often? 
 
 
 
  % motorway 
 
x 
 
  % rural 
 
x 
 
  % urban 
 
x 
 
26 
Has a fuel 
additive, not 
approved by the 
manufacturer been 
used? 
If yes then the vehicle 
cannot be selected. 
x 
 
 
27 
Has the vehicle been 
maintained and used 
in accordance with 
the manufacturer's 
instructions? 
If not, the vehicle 
cannot be selected. 
x 
 
 
28 
Full service and 
repair history 
including any re-
works 
If the full 
documentation 
cannot be provided, 
the vehicle cannot be 
selected. 
x 
 
 
Vehicle examination and Maintainance 
 
X = Exclusion Criteria/ 
F = Faulty Vehicle 
X = checked and 
reported 



--- PAGE 750 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 750 of 762 
 
1 
Fuel tank level 
(full/empty) 
Is the fuel reserve light 
ON? If yes, refuel 
before test. 
 
x 
2 
Are 
there 
any 
warning lights on the 
instrument 
panel 
activated indicating 
a vehicle or exhaust 
after-treatment 
system 
malfunctioning that 
cannot be resolve by 
normal 
maintenance? 
(Malfunction 
Indication 
Light, 
Engine 
Service 
Light, etc?) 
If yes, the vehicle 
cannot be selected 
x 
 
 
3 
Is the SCR light on 
after engine-on? 
If yes, the AdBlue 
should be filled in, 
or the repair 
executed before the 
vehicle is used for 
testing. 
 
x 
 
4 
Visual inspection 
exhaust system 
Check leaks between 
exhaust manifold 
and end of tailpipe. 
Check and document 
(with photos) 
If there is damage 
or leaks, the vehicle 
is declared 
faulty. 
F 
 



--- PAGE 751 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 751 of 762 
 
5 
Exhaust gas relevant 
components 
Check and 
document (with 
photos) all 
emissions relevant 
components for 
damage. 
If there is damage, the 
vehicle is declared 
faulty. 
F 
 
6 
Evap system 
Pressurize 
fuel-
system (from canister 
side), testing for leaks 
in a constant ambient 
temperature 
environment, 
FID 
sniff test around and 
in the vehicle. If the 
FID sniff test is not 
passed, the vehicle is 
declared faulty. 
F 
 
7 
Fuel sample 
Collect fuel sample 
from the fuel tank. 
 
x 
8 
Air filter and oil 
filter 
Check 
for 
contamination 
and 
damage and change if 
damaged or heavily 
contaminated or less 
than 800km before the 
next 
recommended 
change. 
 
 
x 
9 
Window washer 
fluid (only for 
evaporative testing) 
Remove window 
washer fluid and fill 
tank with hot water. 
 
 
x 



--- PAGE 752 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 752 of 762 
 
10 
Wheels (front and 
rear) 
Check whether the 
wheels are freely 
moveable or blocked 
by the brake 
If not, the vehicle 
cannot be selected. 
x 
 
11 
Tyres 
(only 
for 
evaporative testing) 
Remove spare tyre, 
change to stabilised 
tyres if the tyres were 
changes 
less 
than 
15,000km ago. 
 
x 
12 
Drive belts and 
cooler cover 
In case of damage, 
the vehicle is 
declared faulty. 
Document with 
photos 
F 
 
13 
Check fluid levels 
Check the max. and 
min. levels (engine 
oil, cooling 
liquid)/top up if 
below minimum 
 
x 
14 
Filler flap (only for 
evaporative testing) 
Check overfill line 
within filler flap is 
completely free of 
residues or flush the 
hose with hot water. 
 
x 
15 
Vacuum hoses and 
electrical wiring 
Check all for 
integrity. In case of 
damage, the vehicle 
F 
 



--- PAGE 753 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 753 of 762 
 
is declared faulty. 
Document with 
photos 
16 
Injection 
valves/cabling 
Check all cables and 
fuel lines. In case of 
damage, the vehicle is 
declared faulty. 
Document with 
photos 
F 
 
 
17 
Ignition cable 
(gasoline) 
Check spark plugs, 
cables, etc. In case 
of damage, replace 
them. 
 
 
x 
18 
EGR and Catalyst, 
Particle Filter 
Check all cables, 
wires and sensors. 
In case of tampering, 
the vehicle cannot be 
selected. In case of 
damage the vehicle 
is declared Faulty, 
Document with 
photos 
x/F 
 
19 
Safety condition 
Check tyres, vehicle's 
body, electrical and 
braking system status 
are in safe conditions 
for the test and respect 
road traffic rules. 
If not, the vehicle 
cannot be selected. 
x 
 
20 
Semi-trailer 
Are there electric 
cables for semi-
 
x 



--- PAGE 754 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 754 of 762 
 
trailer connection, 
where required? 
21 
Aerodynamic 
modifications 
Verify no aftermarket 
aerodynamics 
modification 
that 
cannot be removed 
before testing 
was 
made 
(roof 
boxes, 
load racking, spoilers, 
etc.) and no standard 
aerodynamics 
components 
are 
missing 
(front 
deflectors, diffusers, 
splitters, etc.). 
If yes, the vehicle 
cannot be selected. 
Document 
with 
photos. 
x 
 
22 
Check if less than 
800km away from 
next scheduled 
service, if yes, then 
perform the service. 
 
x 
23 
All checks requiring 
OBD connections to 
be performed before 
and/or after the end 
of testing 
 
 
24 
Powertrain Control 
Module calibration 
part number and 
checksum 
 
x 
25 
OBD diagnosis 
(before or after the 
emissions test) 
Read Diagnostic 
Trouble Codes and 
Print error log 
 
x 
26 
OBD Service Mode 
09 Query (before or 
 
x 



--- PAGE 755 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 755 of 762 
 
after the emissions 
test) 
Read Service Mode 
09. Record the 
information. 
27 
OBD mode 7 (before 
or after the 
emissions test) 
Read Service Mode 
07. Record the 
information 
 
 
 
Remarks for: Repair/replacement of components/part numbers 
 
APPENDIX 2 
RULES FOR PERFORMING TYPE IV TESTS DURING IN-SERVICE   
CONFORMITY 
 
Type IV tests for in-service conformity shall be performed in accordance with 
Annex C3 of this regulation, with the following exceptions: 
 
– Vehicles tested with the Type IV test shall be at least 12 months of age. 
 
– The canister shall be considered aged and therefore the Canister Bench 
Ageing procedure shall not be followed. 
 
– The canister shall be loaded outside the vehicle, following the procedure 
described for this purpose in Annex C3 of this regulation and shall be removed 
and mounted to the vehicle following the repair instructions of the 
manufacturer. An FID sniff test (with results less than 100ppm at 20°C) shall 
be made as close as possible to the canister before and after the loading to 
confirm that the canister is mounted properly. 
 
– The tank shall be considered aged and therefore no Permeability Factor shall 
be added in the calculation of the result of the Type IV test. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 756 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 756 of 762 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX 3 
DETAILED ISC REPORT 
The following information shall be included in the detailed ISC report: 
1.0 
The name and address of the manufacturer; 
2.0 
The name, address, telephone and fax numbers and e-mail address of the 
responsible testing laboratory; 
3.0 
The model name(s) of the vehicles included in the test plan; 
4.0 
Where appropriate, the list of vehicle types covered within the manufacturer's 
information, i.e. for tailpipe emissions, the in-service family group; 
5.0 
The numbers of the type approvals applicable to these vehicle types within the 
family, including, where applicable, the numbers of all extensions and field 
fixes/recalls (re-works); 
6.0 
Details of extensions, field fixes/recalls to those type approvals for the vehicles 
covered within the manufacturer's information (if requested by the Test Agency); 
7.0 
The period of time over which the information was collected; 
8.0 
The vehicle build period covered (e.g. vehicles manufactured during the 2017 
calendar year); 
9.0 
The ISC checking procedure, including: 
 
(i) 
Vehicle sourcing method; 
 
(ii) 
Vehicle selection and rejection criteria (including the answers to the table in 
Appendix 1, including photos); 
 
(iii) Test types and procedures used for the programme; 



--- PAGE 757 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 757 of 762 
 
 
(iv) The acceptance/rejection criteria for the family group; 
 
(v) 
Geographical area(s) within which the manufacturer has collected 
information; 
 
(vi) Sample size and sampling plan used; 
10.0 
The results of the ISC procedure, including: 
 
(i) 
Identification of the vehicles included in the programme (whether tested or 
not). The identification shall include the Table in Appendix 1. 
 
(ii) 
Test data for tailpipe emissions: 
 
– Test fuel specifications (e.g. test reference fuel or market fuel), 
 
– Test conditions (temperature, humidity, dynamometer inertia weight) 
 
– Dynamometer settings (e.g. road load, power setting), 
 
– Test results and calculation of pass/fail; 
 
(iii) Test data for evaporative emissions: 
 
– Test fuel specifications (e.g. test reference fuel or market fuel), 
 
– Test conditions (temperature, humidity, dynamometer inertia weight), 
 
– Dynamometer settings (e.g. road load, power setting), 
 
– Test results and calculation of pass/fail. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



--- PAGE 758 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 758 of 762 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX 4 
FORMAT OF THE ISC REPORT BY THE TEST AGENCY 
 
ISC Test Report is issued by the Test Agency responsible for conducting the ISC 
activity according this regulation. 
 
The report shall include  
 
(a) Identification of the vehicles included in the programme (whether tested or 
not). The identification shall include the following: 
 
(i) 
Model name; 
 
(ii) Vehicle Identification Number (VIN); 
 
(iii) Vehicle registration number; 
 
(iv) Date of manufacture; 
 
(v) 
Region of use (where known); and 
 
(vi) Tyres fitted (tailpipe emissions only). 
 
(b) The reason(s) for rejecting a vehicle from the sample; 
 
(c) Service history for each vehicle in the sample (including any re-works); 
 
(d) Repair history for each vehicle in the sample (where known); and 
 
(e) Test data, including the following: 
 
(i) 
Date of test/download; 
 
(ii) Location of test/download; and 



--- PAGE 759 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 759 of 762 
 
 
(iii) Distance indicated on vehicle odometer; for tailpipe emissions only; 
 
(iv) Test fuel specifications (e.g. test reference fuel or market fuel); 
 
(v) 
Test conditions (temperature, humidity, dynamometer inertia weight); 
 
(vi) Dynamometer settings (e.g. power setting); and 
 
(vii) Test results (from at least three different vehicles per family); and, 
 
(viii) All required data downloaded from the vehicle; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX 5 
IN-USE PERFORMANCE RATIO MONITORING (IUPRM) 
1.0 
For IUPRM sampling, the following: 
 
(a) The average of in-use-performance ratios IUPRM of all selected vehicles for 
each monitor according to clauses 7.1.4. and 7.1.5. of Appendix 1 of Annex 
C5 of this Regulation. 
 
(b) The percentage of selected vehicles, which have an IUPRM greater or equal 
to the minimum value applicable to the monitor according to clauses 7.1.4. 
and 7.1.5. of Appendix 1 of Annex C5 of this Regulation. 
2.0 
For OBD IUPRM testing, vehicles fulfilling the following criteria shall be 
included in the test sample. 
 
For checking IUPRM, the test sample shall include only vehicles that: 
 
(a) Have collected sufficient vehicle operation data for the monitor to be tested.  
 
For monitors required to meet the in-use monitor performance ratio and to 
track and report ratio data pursuant to clause 7.6 of Appendix 1 to Annex C5 
to this Regulation  sufficient vehicle operation data shall mean the 
denominator meets the criteria set forth below. The denominator, as defined 
in clause 7.2 and 7.3 of Appendix 1 to Annex C5 to this Regulation, for the 
monitor to be tested shall have a value equal to or greater than one of the 
following values: 
 
(i) 
75 for evaporative system monitors, secondary air system monitors, and 
monitors utilizing a denominator   incremented in accordance with 
clause 7.3.2 sub-clauses (a), (b) or (c) of Appendix 1 to Annex C5 to 
this Regulation  (e.g. cold start monitors, air conditioning system 
monitors, etc.); or 



--- PAGE 760 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 760 of 762 
 
 
(ii) 25 for particulate filter monitors and oxidation catalyst monitors 
utilizing a denominator incremented in accordance with clause 7.3.2 
sub-clauses (d) of  Appendix 1 to Annex C5 to this Regulation; or 
 
(iii) 150 for catalyst, oxygen sensor, EGR, VVT, and all other component 
monitors; 
 
(b) Have not been tampered with or equipped with add-on or modified parts that 
would cause the OBD system not to comply with the requirements of Annex 
C5 o this Regulation. 
3.0 
Sample Size 
 
The number of sample lots shall depend on the annual sales volume of an OBD 
family as defined in Table C5. App5/1 of this Appendix. 
 
Table C5. App5/1  
Sample Size 
 
Sales volume per Financial year, 
of vehicles of an OBD family with 
IUPR in the sampling period  
Number of sample lots 
 
 
Up to 100,000 
1 
 
100,001 to 200,000 
2 
 
Above 200,000 
3 
 
The sampling shall be drawn from at least two regions with substantially different 
vehicle operating conditions. Factors such as differences in fuels, ambient 
conditions, average road speeds, and urban/highway driving split shall be taken 
into consideration in the selection of the regions. 
 
In selecting the regions for sampling vehicles, vehicles may be selected from a 
region that is considered to be particularly representative. Selection should be 
representative (e.g. by the market having the largest annual sales of a vehicle 
family within the applicable region). When a family requires more than one 
sample lot to be tested, as defined in clause 5.8. of this Annex, the vehicles in the 
second and third sample lots shall reflect different vehicle operating conditions 
from those selected for the first sample 
 
For IUPR, the number of sample lots to be taken is described in Table C5. App5/1 
of this Appendix and is based on the number of vehicles of an OBD family that 
are approved with IUPR (subject to sampling). 
 
For the first sampling period of an OBD family, all of the vehicle types in the 
family that are approved with IUPR shall be considered to be subject to sampling. 
For subsequent sampling periods, only vehicle types which have not been 
previously tested or are covered by emissions approvals that have been extended 
since the previous sampling period shall be considered to be subject to sampling. 



--- PAGE 761 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 761 of 762 
 
 
For families consisting of fewer than 5,000 registrations that are subject to 
sampling within the sampling period, the minimum number of vehicles in a 
sample lot is six. For all other families, the minimum number of vehicles in a 
sample lot to be sampled is fifteen. 
 
Each sample lot shall adequately represent the sales pattern, i.e. at least the high 
volume vehicle types (≥20 per cent of the family total) shall be represented. 
 
Vehicles of small series productions with less than 1000 vehicles per OBD family 
are exempted from minimum IUPR requirements as well as the requirements to 
demonstrate these to the Test Agency. 
4.0 
The Test Agency shall adopt one of the following decisions and actions: 
 
(a) Decide that the in-service conformity of a vehicle type, vehicle in- service 
family or vehicle OBD family is satisfactory and not take any further action; 
 
 (b) Decide that the data is insufficient to reach a decision and request additional 
information or vehicles 
 
(c) Decide that based on data of testing programmes, whether it is insufficient to 
reach a decision and request additional information or   vehicles 
 
(d) Decide that the in-service conformity of a vehicle type, that is part of an in-
service family, or of an OBD family, is unsatisfactory and proceed to have 
such vehicle type or OBD family tested in accordance with Appendix 1 of 
Annex C5 of this Regulation. 
 
If, according to the IUPRM audit, the test criteria of clause 5.1, sub-clause (a) of 
this Appendix are met for the vehicles in a sample lot, the Test Agency shall take 
the further action described in sub-clause (d) above. 
5.0 
PLAN OF REMEDIAL MEASURES 
5.1 
For IUPRM of a particular monitor M the following statistical conditions are met 
in a test sample, the size of which is determined according to clause 3 of this 
Appendix. 
 
(a) 
For vehicles certified to the full ratios in accordance with Paragraphs 7.1.4. 
of  Appendix 1 to Annex C5  of  this Regulation the data collected from the 
vehicles indicate for at least one monitor M in the test sample either that the test 
sample average in-use performance ratio in the test sample is less than the value 
Testmin (M) or that 66% or more of the vehicles in the test sample have an in-use 
performance ratio of less than Testmin (M).  
 
The value of Testmin (M) shall be: 
 
(i)   0.230 if the monitor M is required to have an in-use ratio of 0.26; 
 
(ii)  0.460 if the monitor M is required to have an in-use ratio of 0.52; 



--- PAGE 762 ---
Draft AIS 175 / Final Draft 
MARCH 2025 
 
Page 762 of 762 
 
 
(iii) 0.297 if the monitor M is required to have an in-use ratio of 0.336; 
 
According to Paragraph 7.1.4. of Appendix 1 to Annex C5 of this Regulation 
 
 

